Item 1.Business Overview Our mission is to give people the power to share and make the world more open and connected. Our business focuses on creating value for people, marketers, and developers. How We Create Value for People Who Use Facebook Our top priority is to build useful and engaging products that enable people to connect and share through mobile devices and personal computers. We also help people discover and learn about what is going on in the world around them, enable people to share their opinions, ideas, photos and videos, and other activities with audiences ranging from their closest friends to the public at large, and stay connected everywhere by accessing our products, including: •Facebook. The Facebook mobile app and website enable people to connect, share, discover, and communicate with each other on mobile devices and personal computers. Facebook is free and available throughout the world. We had 890 million daily active users (DAUs) on average in December 2014, an increase of 18% compared to December 2013. We had 745 million DAUs who accessed Facebook from a mobile device on average in December 2014, an increase of 34% compared to December 2013. •Instagram. Instagram is a mobile application that enables people to take photos or videos, customize them with filter effects, and share them with friends and followers in a photo feed or send them directly to friends. •Messenger. Messenger is a mobile-to-mobile messaging application available on Android, iOS and Windows Phone devices. Messenger works similarly to texting (SMS) or online chat to enable people to reach others instantly and also seamlessly integrates with Facebook messaging functionality on personal computers. •WhatsApp. WhatsApp Messenger is a cross-platform mobile messaging application that allows people to exchange messages on iOS, Android, BlackBerry, Windows Phone, and Nokia devices. \How We Create Value for Marketers Facebook focuses on providing value for all kinds of marketers, including brand, direct response, small and medium-sized businesses, and developers. We help them achieve their business objectives, whether it is driving online sales, in-store sales, or awareness of their brand. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from selling advertising placements to marketers. Our ads let marketers reach people on Facebook based on a variety of factors including age, gender, location, and interests. Marketers purchase ads that can appear in multiple places including in News Feed on mobile devices and  personal computers, and on the right-hand side of personal computers. Our ad planning tools are designed to align with marketers' business goals. When marketers create an ad campaign on Facebook, they can specify their budget, marketing objectives and the types of people they want to reach. Facebook's ad serving technology then dynamically determines the best available ad to show each person based on those dimensions. Marketers can also use our platform's insights to measure and optimize both the in-store and online performance of their ad campaigns. These insights help marketers not only understand how their ads drove results but also help them make modifications to their ad campaigns to improve those results. In addition to ads on Facebook, marketers can buy ads on Instagram and on other websites and applications such as Audience Network, Atlas, and LiveRail. How We Create Value for Developers Facebook supports developers’ efforts to build, grow, and monetize their mobile and web applications. First, we provide a set of development tools and application programming interfaces (APIs) that enable developers to easily integrate with Facebook to create mobile and web applications across platforms and devices. Second, we help developers grow their mobile and web applications by providing them with tools, such as mobile application ads or social plugins, to increase the exposure, distribution and engagement of such applications. By using our tools for sharing, messaging, invites, requests, and mobile application ads, developers have a number of ways to drive application discovery and user engagement. Finally, we help developers monetize their web applications by providing an online Payments infrastructure that enables developers to receive payments from people who use Facebook in an easy-to-use, secure, and trusted environment, as well as from our Audience Network, where developers are able to monetize their mobile applications by showing ads from Facebook advertisers within their application. 5 We generate revenue from developers who use our Payments infrastructure to sell virtual and digital goods to people who use Facebook on personal computers. We also generate revenue from developers who choose to purchase ads from us, and we receive a portion of the revenue from developers who show ads from Facebook advertisers in their applications within our Audience Network. Competition Our business is characterized by innovation, rapid change, and disruptive technologies. We face significant competition in every aspect of our business, including from companies that provide tools to facilitate the sharing of information, companies that enable marketers to display advertising, and companies that provide development platforms for application developers. We compete to attract, engage, and retain people, to attract and retain marketers, to attract and retain developers to build compelling mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook, and to attract and retain highly talented individuals, especially software engineers, designers, and product managers. We compete with the following: •Companies that offer full-featured products that replicate the range of communications and related capabilities we provide. These offerings include, for example, Google+, which Google has integrated with certain of its products, including search and Android, as well as other, largely regional, social networks that have strong positions in particular countries. •Companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that provide social or other communications functionality, such as messaging, photo- and video-sharing, and micro-blogging. •Companies that provide web- and mobile-based information and entertainment products and services that are designed to engage people and capture time spent online and on mobile devices. •Traditional, online, and mobile businesses that provide media for marketers to reach their audiences and/or develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. As we introduce new products, as our existing products evolve, or as other companies introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional competition. Technology Our product development philosophy is centered on continuous innovation in creating and improving products that are social by design, which means that our products are designed to place people and their social interactions at the core of the product experience. As our user base grows, and the level of engagement from the people who use Facebook continues to increase, including on mobile devices, our computing needs continue to expand. We make significant investments in technology both to improve our existing products and services and to develop new ones for people who use Facebook, and for our marketers and developers. Our research and development expenses were $2.67 billion, $1.42 billion, and $1.40 billion in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. For information about our research and development expenses, see Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Research and development" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Operations The majority of our marketers use our self-service ad platform to establish accounts and to launch and manage their advertising campaigns. We also have a global sales force that is focused on attracting and retaining marketers and providing support to them throughout the stages of the advertising campaign cycle from pre-purchase decision-making to real-time optimizations to post-campaign analytics. We work directly with marketers, through traditional advertising agencies, and with an ecosystem of agencies that have a specialized focus on Facebook advertising. We currently operate more than 30 sales offices around the globe. We have operations teams to provide support for people, marketers and developers in five regional centers located in Menlo Park, California; Austin, Texas; Dublin, Ireland; Hyderabad, India; and Singapore. We also invest in and rely on self-service tools to provide direct customer support to people, marketers, and developers. We have data centers in the United States, including data center facilities that we own in Iowa, North Carolina, and Oregon and leased data center facilities in California and Virginia. We also own a data center facility in Lulea, Sweden. Marketing To date, the Facebook community has grown virally with people inviting their friends to connect with them, supported by internal efforts to stimulate awareness and interest. In addition we have invested and will continue to invest in marketing our products 6 and services to build our brand and user base around the world. We leverage the utility of our products and our social distribution channels as our most effective marketing tools. In addition, we undertake various user acquisition efforts and regularly host events and conferences to engage with marketers and developers. Intellectual Property To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, including know-how, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. In addition, to further protect our proprietary rights, from time to time we have purchased patents and patent applications from third parties. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or copyright or groups of related patents or copyrights. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Government Regulation We are subject to a number of U.S. federal and state, and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. Many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These may involve user privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, telecommunications, product liability, taxation, economic or other trade prohibitions or sanctions, securities law compliance, and online payment services. In particular, we are subject to federal, state, and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of people's data. Foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations can be more restrictive than those in the United States. U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. In addition, the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. There are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislative bodies, and foreign governments concerning privacy and data protection which could affect us. For example, the European Commission is currently considering a data protection regulation that may include operational requirements for companies that receive personal data that are different than those currently in place in the European Union, and that may also include significant penalties for non-compliance. In August 2012, the FTC approved a settlement agreement with us to resolve an investigation into various practices that, among other things, requires us to complete bi-annual independent privacy assessments and to establish and refine certain practices with respect to treatment of people's information and the privacy settings we offer. Violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Various laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, such as the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and the Credit CARD Act, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. Under these laws and regulations, financial institutions are broadly defined to include money services businesses such as money transmitters, check cashers, and sellers or issuers of stored value or prepaid access products. Requirements imposed on financial institutions under these laws include customer identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures, and transaction reporting. To increase flexibility in how our use of Payments may evolve and to mitigate regulatory uncertainty, we have received certain money transmitter licenses in the United States and are applying for, or expect to apply for, certain regulatory licenses in Europe, which will generally require us to demonstrate compliance with many domestic and foreign laws relating to money transmission, gift cards and other prepaid access instruments, electronic funds transfers, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, gambling, banking and lending, financial privacy and data security, and import and export restrictions. Employees As of December 31, 2014, we had 9,199 employees. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2004. We completed our initial public offering in May 2012 and our Class A common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "FB." Our principal executive offices are located at 1601 Willow Road, Menlo Park, California 94025, and our telephone number is (650) 543-4800. Facebook, the Facebook logo, FB, the Like button, Instagram, Oculus, WhatsApp, and our other registered or common law trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Facebook, Inc. or its 7 affiliates. Other trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Notes 1 and 14 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information Our website address is www.facebook.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and file or furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at investor.fb.com when such reports are available on the SEC's website. We use our investor.fb.com website and Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook Page (https://www.facebook.com/zuck) as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The public may read and copy any materials filed by Facebook with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 8