Item 1.Business Overview Our mission is to give people the power to share and make the world more open and connected. We build technology to enable faster, easier and richer communication. Hundreds of millions of people use Facebook's websites and mobile applications every day to stay connected with their friends and family, to discover and learn what is going on in the world around them, and to share and express what matters to them to the people they care about. Our business focuses on creating value for users, marketers, and developers. How We Create Value for People Who Use Facebook Our top priority is to build useful and engaging products that enable people to: •Connect and Share with Friends. With more than 1.2 billion monthly active users (MAUs) worldwide, Facebook users are able to find and stay connected with their friends, family, and colleagues on Facebook. •Discover and Learn. We believe that people come to Facebook to discover and learn more about what is going on in the world around them, particularly in the lives of their friends and family and with public figures and organizations that interest them. Each person's experience on Facebook is unique based on the content shared by his or her friends and connections. •Express Yourself. We enable people to share their opinions, ideas, photos and videos, and activities with audiences ranging from their closest friends to the public at large, giving everyone a voice within the Facebook community. Through Facebook's privacy and sharing settings, people can control what they share and with whom they share it. •Stay Connected Everywhere. People can access Facebook through our website, mobile sites, smartphone applications, and feature phone products. Through mobile and web applications built by developers that integrate with Facebook, people can interact with their Facebook friends while playing games, listening to music, watching movies, reading news, and engaging in other activities across the web and on mobile devices. We had 757 million daily active users (DAUs) on average in December 2013, an increase of 22% compared to December 2012. We had 556 million DAUs who accessed Facebook from a mobile device on average in December 2013, an increase of 49% compared to December 2012. \How We Create Value for Marketers Facebook focuses on providing value for all kinds of marketers, including brand marketers, direct marketers, small and medium-sized businesses, and developers. We help marketers achieve their business objectives, such as increasing online sales, in-store sales, or awareness of their brands, products, or services. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from selling advertising placements to marketers. We offer marketers the following benefits: •Targeted Reach. With over 1.2 billion MAUs using our service every month, Facebook offers marketers the ability to  reach their existing and prospective customers. Marketers can target their ads to people on Facebook based on demographic factors such as age, location, gender, education, and specific interests that users have chosen to share with us. In addition, marketers may choose to match their own data or third-party data with ours, so they can find existing customers or potential new ones directly on Facebook. We also offer marketers the ability to include social context with their marketing messages. Social context is information that highlights a friend's connections with a particular brand or business, and we believe that social context improves ad effectiveness. •Engagement. We offer marketers access to one of the most highly engaged consumer networks in the world. According to eMarketer, in 2013, people spent more time with digital media than watching TV for the first time. We believe marketing dollars will follow this shift in consumer time, and we offer marketers a place to shift their spend given our large and highly engaged audience. •Facebook Ads. Our ads offer marketers the opportunity to communicate their messages to consumers and to direct them to specific destinations such as a web page or a Facebook Page. Marketers purchase ads that can appear in multiple locations including in the right-hand side of most page types on personal computers and in the News Feed on personal 5 computers or mobile devices. Our ads are effectively integrated into the Facebook experience in a manner designed to deliver impressive returns for marketers while optimizing the user experience. •Facebook Ad System. Our ad creation tools are designed to align with marketers’ advertising goals. When marketers create an ad campaign on Facebook, they can specify their marketing objectives and the types of people they want to reach. In addition, marketers can use our products such as Custom Audiences to more precisely target people such as those who have previously expressed interest in that particular marketer. Using our ad system, marketers indicate the maximum price they are willing to pay for their ad, either per click (CPC), per action (CPA), or per thousand impressions (CPM), and their maximum budget. Our system also supports guaranteed delivery of a fixed number of ad impressions for a fixed price. Facebook's ad serving technology dynamically determines the best available ad to show each user based on the combination of the user's unique attributes and the real-time comparison of bids from eligible ads. We enable marketers to deploy and adjust campaigns rapidly. •Ad Measurement. Marketers can use our platform to track and optimize both the in-store and online performance of their ad campaigns. Offline and online conversion measurement and partnerships with third parties help marketers understand how their ad investments impact specific business outcomes (e.g. in-store sales, offsite conversions, application installs). These insights also help marketers make modifications to their ad campaigns to maximize results. How We Create Value for Developers Facebook provides a set of development tools and application programming interfaces (APIs) that enable developers to easily integrate with Facebook to create mobile and web applications. We are focused on providing developers with unique tools to support their mobile and web applications. We generate revenue from developers who use our Payments infrastructure to sell virtual and digital goods to our users on personal computers. We also generate revenue from developers who choose to purchase ads from us. We support developers’ efforts to build, grow, and monetize their mobile and web applications: •Build. We provide tools and services that accelerate and enhance cross-platform mobile and web application development. With Facebook Login, developers can offer their users a single identity across platforms, which provides a fast and secure way for people to sign in. Facebook Login also enables developers to design applications that feel familiar to each user by bringing their Facebook identity to the application experience. Through our Parse service, we enable developers to focus on creating engaging front-end user experiences while using our service to handle complex back-end infrastructure, services and server maintenance. •Grow. We provide developers with tools to increase the exposure, distribution and engagement of their mobile and web applications. By using our tools for sharing, invites, requests, and mobile application ads, developers have unique ways to drive application discovery and user engagement. Mobile application ads enable developers to grow awareness and usage of their applications and can feature a call to action such as "install" or "shop now." Mobile application ads for "install" actions appear in the Facebook News Feed and take people directly to the application store to download. If a mobile developer would like to target users who already have their application installed, they can link users from the News Feed ad to a customized, specific location inside the application, such as a sale, promotion or specific content such as a new album or hotel listing. In addition, social plugins, such as the Like button, are social features that developers can easily integrate with their websites by incorporating a few lines of HTML code. Social plugins enable developers to provide engaging and personalized social experiences to their users. •Monetize. On the web, we provide an online Payments infrastructure that enables developers to receive payments from our users in an easy-to-use, secure, and trusted environment. Our Payments infrastructure enables users on personal computers to purchase virtual or digital goods from developers and third-party websites by using debit and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards or other methods. Currently, substantially all of our Payments revenue is from users' purchases of virtual goods used in social games on personal computers. We receive a fee of up to 30% when users make such purchases from developers using our Payments infrastructure. In 2013, developers received more than $2.1 billion from transactions enabled by our Payments infrastructure. While mobile applications can also integrate with Facebook, mobile applications do not process transactions using our Payments infrastructure. Our Products •Facebook. The Facebook mobile app and website enable people to connect, share, discover, and communicate with each other on mobile devices and personal computers. Facebook is free and available throughout the world. The Facebook website and mobile app includes the following features: -News Feed. News Feed is the core feature of a person's homepage on the Facebook website and mobile app and 6 is a regularly updating list of stories from friends, Pages, and other entities to which the person is connected. It includes posts, photos, event updates, group memberships, application updates, and other activities. Each person's News Feed is personalized based on his or her interests and the sharing activity of his or her friends and connections. Stories in each person's News Feed are prioritized based on several factors, including how many friends have Liked or Commented on a certain piece of content, who posted the content, and what type of content it is. -Timeline. Timeline allows people to organize and display the events and activities that matter most to them, enabling them to curate their memories in a searchable personal narrative that is organized chronologically. People choose what information to share on their Timeline, such as their interests, photos, education, work history, relationship status, and contact information, and people can control with whom content is shared on their Timeline. -Graph Search. Graph Search is a structured search tool that enables people to find people, places, photos and other information shared with them on Facebook. People can search using simple phrases such as "Photos of my friends in New York" or "Restaurants in London that my friends have been to," and browse the results. Once turned on, Graph Search replaces the search bar at the top of every page on Facebook. Graph Search beta is available on the web for people using the site in English, and we are planning to expand Graph Search to mobile and international audiences in the future. •Messenger. Messenger is a mobile-to-mobile messaging application available on iOS and Android phones. Messenger works similarly to texting (SMS) to let people reach others instantly. •Instagram. Instagram is a mobile app and website that enable people to take photos or videos, customize them with filter effects, and share them with friends and followers in a photo feed or send them directly to friends. Our Strategy We are in the early stages of pursuing our mission to make the world more open and connected. We believe we have a significant opportunity to further enhance the value we deliver to users, developers, and marketers. Key elements of our strategy are: •Expand Our Global Community. There are more than 1.5 billion internet users on personal computers, and more than three billion mobile users worldwide according to GSMA Wireless Intelligence, and we aspire to someday connect all of these people. As of December 31, 2013, we had 1.23 billion MAUs globally. We intend to increase the size of our network by continuing our marketing and user acquisition efforts, enhancing our products including mobile applications, and making Facebook more easily accessible to people throughout the world. We are focused on increasing the number of people using Facebook across all geographies, including relatively less-developed markets. Our investments include efforts to make Facebook accessible on feature phones, reducing the amount of data required to utilize our service, and investing in increasing the number of people who have access to the internet including through industry partnerships such as Internet.org. •Develop Great Social Products to Increase Engagement. We prioritize product development investments that we believe will drive user engagement. We continue to invest significantly in improving our existing products such as News Feed, Timeline, and Graph Search and our stand-alone mobile applications such as Messenger and Instagram. For example, we are continually improving our ability to analyze and organize vast amounts of information in real time to enable us to select the unique content that we believe will be most interesting to show to each user. We are also focused on developing new products, including new stand-alone applications, to increase engagement. Increasing user engagement is a core part of our strategy to maximize our long-term business performance and therefore we are willing to sacrifice short-term monetization in order to increase engagement. •Increase the Utility of our Service and Provide the Most Compelling User Experience. We aim to maximize the utility we create for people using our service. We are investing significantly in improving our products and developing new products, including new stand-alone applications, in order to create more value and make the Facebook experience more useful. We also enable developers to integrate their mobile and web applications with Facebook in order to increase utility for our users. •Improve Our Ad Products. We are investing to improve our ad products in order to attract more marketers to work with Facebook, to create more value for marketers, and to enhance marketers' ability to make their advertising more relevant for users. Our advertising strategy centers on the belief that ad products that are relevant, well-targeted, social, and well-integrated with other content on Facebook can enhance the user experience while providing an attractive return for marketers. We intend to invest in additional products for marketers while continuing to balance our monetization objectives with our commitment to optimizing the user experience. We will continue to work to develop new tools that help marketers to target their ads most effectively and thereby increase their return on ad spend. We also continue to focus on analytics 7 and measurement tools to enable marketers to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of ad campaigns on Facebook. •Excel at Mobile Product Development and Make our Mobile Products Fast, Reliable, and Easily Available. We devote substantial resources to our development of mobile products and experiences for a wide range of platforms, including smartphones, feature phones and tablets. In addition, we are working across the mobile industry with operators, hardware manufacturers, operating system providers, and developers to improve the Facebook experience on mobile devices and make Facebook available to more people around the world. We had 945 million MAUs who used Facebook mobile products as of December 31, 2013. We believe that mobile usage of Facebook is critical to user growth and engagement over the long term. •Enable Developers to Build, Grow, and Monetize Their Mobile and Web Applications. The success of Facebook’s developer ecosystem is an important part of our strategy. We continue to invest in tools and APIs that enhance the ability of developers who integrate with Facebook to build valuable and engaging products. Developers can create value for Facebook in multiple ways, including: purchasing advertising on Facebook; using our Payment infrastructure to facilitate transactions with users on personal computers; sharing content with Facebook that makes our products more engaging; and contributing to our understanding of users’ interests and preferences. •Build a Scalable Infrastructure to Provide the Most Compelling, Robust, and Reliable Product Experience. We are investing in software and hardware infrastructure that enables us to provide a unique, personalized experience to each of our users around the world. We believe the speed and reliability of our products are important competitive advantages. Building and Maintaining User Trust Trust is a cornerstone of our business. We dedicate significant resources to the goal of building user trust through developing and implementing programs designed to protect user privacy, promote a safe environment, and assure the security of user data. The resources we dedicate to this goal include engineers, analysts, lawyers, policy experts, and operations specialists, as well as hardware and software from leading vendors and solutions we have designed and built. •Privacy and Sharing. People come to Facebook to connect and share with different audiences. Protecting user privacy is an important part of our product development process. Our objective is to give users choice over what they share and with whom they share it. This effort is fundamental to our business and focuses on control, transparency, and accountability. - Control. We believe that by providing our users with clear and easy-to-use controls, we will continue to promote trust in our products. For example, when a user posts a status update or uploads a photo to Facebook, our in-line controls allow the user to select his or her audience at the same time that he or she is publishing the post. In addition, we provide other data management tools. "Activity Log" is a unified tool that people can use to review and manage the content they have posted and the actions they have taken on Facebook. When using the Activity Log, a user can view his or her activity with a particular application, delete a specific post, change who can see a photo, or remove an application completely. Additionally, our "Download Your Information" tool enables users to access and store their personal information off Facebook. -Transparency. Our Data Use Policy describes in plain language our data use practices and how privacy works on Facebook. We also offer a number of tools and features that provide users with transparency about their information on Facebook. Our application settings feature enables users to view each of the applications they have chosen to use, the information needed by each application, and the audience with whom the user has chosen to share his or her interactions with each application. We believe that this transparency enables people to make more informed decisions about their activities on Facebook. -Accountability. We continue to build new procedural safeguards as part of our comprehensive privacy program. These include a dedicated team of privacy professionals who are involved in new product and feature development from design through launch; ongoing review and monitoring of the way data is handled by existing features and applications; and rigorous data security practices. We regularly work with online privacy and safety experts and regulators around the world. In August 2012, the Federal Trade Commission formally approved a 20-year settlement agreement requiring us to enhance our privacy program and to complete biennial third-party assessments. We also have undergone two audits by the Office of the Irish Data Protection Commissioner. The audits comprehensively reviewed our compliance with Irish data protection law, which is grounded in European data protection principles. As part of the audit process, we agreed to enhance various data protection and privacy practices to ensure compliance with the law and adherence to industry best practices. •Safety. We design our products to include safety tools. These tools are coupled with educational resources and partnerships with online safety experts to offer protections for all users, particularly teenagers. We take into account the unique needs 8 of teenagers who use our service and employ age-appropriate settings that restrict their visibility, limit the audience with whom they can share, and help prevent unwanted contact from strangers. Our abuse reporting infrastructure allows anyone on Facebook to report inappropriate, offensive, or dangerous content through "report" links found throughout our site. We have enhanced this reporting system to include "Social Reporting," which gives users the option to report content to us, to report content to a trusted friend, or to block the person who posted the content with one easy-to-use tool. Our Safety Advisory Board, comprised of five leading online safety organizations from around the world, advises us on product design and helps us to create comprehensive safety resources for everyone who uses our service. These resources are located in our multimedia Family Safety Center on our website, which also offers special information for parents, educators, teenagers, and members of the law enforcement community. •Security. We invest in technology, processes, and people as part of our commitment to safeguarding our users' information. We use a variety of techniques to protect the data that we are entrusted with, and we rely on multiple layers of network segregation using firewalls to protect against attacks or unauthorized access. We also employ proprietary technologies to protect our users. For example, if we suspect that a user's account may have been compromised, we may use a process that we refer to as "social authentication" to validate that the person accessing the account is the actual account holder. The process of social authentication may include asking the person accessing the account to identify photos of the account holder's friends. Our security team actively scans for security vulnerabilities using commercial tools, penetration tests, code security reviews, and internal and external audits. We also have a network of geographically distributed single-tenant data centers, and we take measures to protect the information stored in these data centers. Competition Our business is characterized by innovation, rapid change, and disruptive technologies. We face significant competition in every aspect of our business, including from companies that provide tools to facilitate the sharing of information, companies that enable marketers to display advertising, and companies that provide development platforms for application developers. We compete to attract, engage, and retain users, to attract and retain marketers, to attract and retain developers to build compelling mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook, and to attract and retain highly talented individuals, especially software engineers, designers, and product managers. We compete with the following: •Companies that offer full-featured products that replicate the range of communications and related capabilities we provide. These offerings include, for example, Google+, which Google has integrated with certain of its products, including search and Android, as well as other, largely regional, social networks that have strong positions in particular countries. •Companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that provide social functionality, such as messaging, photo- and video-sharing, and micro-blogging. •Companies that provide web- and mobile-based information and entertainment products and services that are designed to engage users and capture time spent online and on mobile devices. •Traditional and online businesses that provide media for marketers to reach their audiences and/or develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. As we introduce new products, as our existing products evolve, or as other companies introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional competition. Technology We have assembled a team of highly skilled engineers and computer scientists whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas. We make significant investments in product and feature development, data management and personalization technologies, large-scale systems and scalable infrastructure, mobile technologies, and advertising technologies, including: •Product and Feature Development. We aim to improve our existing products continuously and to develop new products for our users, developers, and marketers. Our product development philosophy is centered on continuous innovation in creating products that are social by design, which means that our products are designed to place people and their social interactions at the core of the product experience. •Data Management and Personalization Technologies. To provide each user with a personalized Facebook experience, we must process and analyze a significant amount of content shared by our users, developers, and marketers and surface the most relevant content in real time. As such, we invest extensively in developing technologies and analytics in areas 9 including content optimization and delivery, graph query, media storage and serving, large-scale data management, and software performance. •Large-Scale Systems and Scalable Infrastructure. Our products are built on a shared computing infrastructure. We use a combination of off-the-shelf and custom software running on clusters of commodity computers to amass substantial computing capability. Our infrastructure has enabled the storage and processing of large datasets and facilitated the deployment of our products on a global scale. As our user base grows, and the level of engagement and sharing from our users continues to increase, our computing needs continue to expand. We aim to provide our products rapidly and reliably to all users around the world, including in countries where we do not expect significant short-term monetization. •Mobile Technologies. In order to provide a high-quality experience on a wide variety of mobile devices and operating systems, we invest in developing novel techniques and technologies including: custom graphics rendering, operating system customizations, development tools, systems for customizing the user experience based on a variety of factors, and systems for monitoring the behavior of the applications in the field. •Advertising Technologies. We invest extensively in advertising technology capable of serving billions of ad impressions every day while maximizing the relevance of each impression to selected users based upon the information that users have chosen to share. Our system manages our entire set of ads, the selected audiences, and the marketers' bids to determine which ads to show each person and how to display them for every page on Facebook. We use an advanced user action prediction system that weighs many real-time updated features using automated learning techniques. Our technology incorporates the estimated user action rate with both the marketer's bid and a user relevancy signal to select what we believe to be the optimal ads to show. Our research and development expenses were $1.4 billion in both 2013 and 2012 and $388 million in 2011. For information about our research and development expenses, see Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Research and development" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Operations The majority of our marketers use our self-service ad platform to establish accounts and to launch and manage their advertising campaigns. We also have a global sales force that is focused on attracting and retaining marketers and providing support to them throughout the stages of the advertising campaign cycle from pre-purchase decision making to real-time optimizations to post-campaign analytics. We work directly with marketers, through traditional advertising agencies, and with an ecosystem of agencies that have a specialized focus on Facebook advertising. We currently operate more than 30 sales offices around the globe. We have operations teams to provide support for our users, developers, and marketers in five regional centers located in Menlo Park, California; Austin, Texas; Dublin, Ireland; Hyderabad, India; and Singapore. We also invest in and rely on self-service tools to provide direct customer support to our users, developers, and marketers. Marketing To date, the Facebook user community has grown virally with users inviting their friends to connect with them, supported by internal efforts to stimulate user awareness and interest. In addition we have invested and will continue to invest in marketing our services to build our brand and user base around the world. We leverage the utility of our products and our social distribution channels as our most effective marketing tools. In addition, we undertake various user acquisition efforts and regularly host events and conferences to engage with developers and marketers. Intellectual Property To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, including know-how, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. In addition, to further protect our proprietary rights, from time to time we have purchased patents and patent applications from third parties. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or copyright or groups of related patents or copyrights. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Government Regulation We are subject to a number of U.S. federal and state, and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. Many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These may involve user privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation and online payment 10 services. In particular, we are subject to federal, state, and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. Foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations can be more restrictive than those in the United States. U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. There are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislative bodies, and foreign governments concerning data protection which could affect us. For example, the European Commission is currently considering a data protection regulation that may include operational requirements for companies that receive personal data that are different than those currently in place in the European Union, and that may also include significant penalties for non-compliance. In August 2012, the FTC approved a settlement agreement with us to resolve an investigation into various practices, that, among other things, requires us to complete bi-annual independent privacy assessments and to establish and refine certain practices with respect to treatment of user information and the privacy settings we offer. Violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Various laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, such as the Bank Secrecy Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and the Credit CARD Act, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. Under these laws and regulations, financial institutions are broadly defined to include money services businesses such as money transmitters, check cashers, and sellers or issuers of stored value. Requirements imposed on financial institutions under these laws include customer identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures, and transaction reporting. To increase flexibility in how our use of Payments may evolve and to mitigate regulatory uncertainty, we have received certain money transmitter licenses in the United States and expect to apply for certain regulatory licenses in Europe, which will generally require us to demonstrate compliance with many domestic and foreign laws relating to money transmission, gift cards and other prepaid access instruments, electronic funds transfers, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, gambling, banking and lending, and import and export restrictions. Employees As of December 31, 2013, we had 6,337 employees. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2004. We completed our initial public offering in May 2012 and our Class A common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "FB." Our principal executive offices are located at 1601 Willow Road, Menlo Park, California 94025, and our telephone number is (650) 543-4800. Facebook, the Facebook logo, FB, the Like button, Instagram and our other registered or common law trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Facebook, Inc. or its affiliates. Other trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Notes 1 and 14 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information Our website address is www.facebook.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and file or furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at investor.fb.com when such reports are available on the SEC's website. We use our investor.fb.com website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of investor.fb.com, in addition to following SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The public may read and copy any materials filed by Facebook with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 11 The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 12