Item 1.Business Overview Our mission is to make the world more open and connected. Millions of people come to Facebook every day to stay connected with their friends and family, to discover what is going on in the world around them, and to share and express what matters to them to the people they care about. Developers can use the Facebook Platform to build applications (apps) and websites that integrate with Facebook to reach our global network of users and to build products that are more personalized and social. Marketers can engage with more than one billion monthly active users on Facebook or subsets of our users based on information people have chosen to share with us such as their age, location, gender, or interests. We offer marketers a unique combination of reach, relevance, social context, and engagement to enhance the value of their ads. We believe that we are at the forefront of enabling faster, easier, and richer communication between people and that Facebook has become an integral part of many of our users' daily lives. 2012 Highlights •We had 1.06 billion monthly active users (MAUs) as of December 31, 2012, an increase of 25% as compared to 845 million MAUs as of December 31, 2011. •We had 618 million daily active users (DAUs) on average in December 2012, an increase of 28% as compared to 483 million DAUs in December 2011. •We had 680 million MAUs who used Facebook mobile products in December 2012, an increase of 57% as compared to 432 million MAUs who used Facebook mobile products in December 2011. •There were more than 150 billion friend connections on Facebook as of December 31, 2012. •On average more than 350 million photos per day were uploaded to Facebook in the fourth quarter of 2012. Over 240 billion photos have been shared on Facebook. •As of December 31, 2012, there were more than 50 million Pages with ten or more Likes. •In August 2012, we acquired Instagram, a photo-sharing service with over 100 million registered users. •In 2012, we released a number of new Facebook apps for iPhone, iPad, and Android devices. These releases were built to improve the speed and quality of our mobile product offerings. •In 2012, we introduced features that give marketers new ways to reach people who use Facebook. These include ads in News Feed on both desktop and mobile devices and Custom Audiences, a feature that allows marketers to find their offline customers among Facebook users, and Facebook Exchange (FBX), a real-time bidded ad exchange. How We Create Value for Users Our top priority is to build useful and engaging products that enable you to: •Connect and Share with Your Friends. With more than one billion MAUs worldwide, Facebook users are increasingly able to find and stay connected with their friends, family, and colleagues on Facebook. •Discover and Learn. We believe that people come to Facebook to discover and learn more about what is going on in the world around them, particularly in the lives of their friends and family and with public figures and organizations that interest them. Each person's experience on Facebook is unique based on the content shared by his or her friends and connections. This content is personalized for each user in our products such as News Feed and Timeline. •Express Yourself. We enable people to share and publish their opinions, ideas, photos, and activities to audiences ranging from their closest friends to our one billion users, giving everyone a voice within the Facebook community. Through Facebook's privacy and sharing settings, people can control what they share and with whom they share it. •Stay Connected Everywhere. People can access Facebook through our website, mobile sites, smartphone apps, and feature phone products. Through apps and websites built by developers using the Facebook Platform, people can interact with 5 their Facebook friends while playing games, listening to music, watching movies, reading news, and engaging in other activities across the web and on mobile devices. Our product development approach is centered on building the most useful tools that enable people to connect, share, discover, and communicate with each other on mobile devices and computers. •Timeline. Timeline allows people to organize and display the events and activities that matter most to them, enabling them to curate their memories in a searchable personal narrative that is organized chronologically. People choose what information to share on their Timeline, such as their interests, photos, education, work history, relationship status, and contact information, and people can control with whom each piece of content is shared on their Timeline. •News Feed. The Facebook News Feed is the core feature of a person's homepage and is a regularly updating list of stories from friends, Pages, and other entities to which the person is connected on Facebook. It includes posts, photos, event updates, group memberships, app updates, and other activities. Each person's News Feed is personalized based on his or her interests and the sharing activity of his or her friends. Stories in a user's News Feed are prioritized based on several factors, including how many friends have Liked or Commented on a certain piece of content, who posted the content, and what type of content it is. •Photos and Videos. Facebook is the most popular photo uploading service on the web. People can upload an unlimited number of high resolution photos, create photo albums, and share them with their friends or any audience they choose. Users can also upload and share videos. People can set specific privacy settings for each of their photo albums and videos, making them visible to everyone, or only to certain friends.  In addition, in 2012, we acquired Instagram, a mobile phone-based photo-sharing service, to enhance our photos product offerings and to enable users to increase their levels of mobile engagement and photo sharing. • Messages. Our messaging products include email, chat, and text messaging. The delivery of messages is optimized for the device through which the person is accessing Facebook. We aim to be the fastest and most reliable way for users to communicate through: - Email. Users can set up a free @facebook.com address. - Chat. Users can send messages to their friends in an instant message format. - Text Messaging. Users can activate text messaging on Facebook, allowing the texts they exchange with friends to be incorporated into their respective conversations along with their message and chat history. How We Create Value for Developers Through the Facebook Platform The Facebook Platform is a set of development tools and application programming interfaces (APIs) that enables developers to easily integrate with Facebook to create social apps and websites and to reach our more than one billion users. More than 10 million apps and websites were integrated with Facebook as of December 31, 2012. We are focused on providing Platform developers with unique opportunities to increase their growth, engagement, and monetization, while offering users new ways to connect with their friends through things like games, music, fitness and video apps. Facebook offers tools and APIs that enable developers to increase growth, engagement and monetization. •Growth. We enable Platform developers to reach our global user base and use our distribution channels like News Feed and App Center to increase traffic to their apps and websites. •Engagement. We enable Platform developers to create better products that are personalized and social and that offer new ways for our users to engage with friends and share experiences across mobile devices and on the web. •Monetization. We provide an online payments infrastructure that enables Platform developers to receive payments from our users in an easy-to-use, secure, and trusted environment. In 2012, our Platform developers received more than $1.96 billion from transactions enabled by our Payments infrastructure. Key elements of the Facebook Platform include: •Open Graph. Our underlying Platform is a set of APIs that developers can use to build apps and websites that enable users to share their activities with friends on Facebook. As Open Graph connected apps and websites become an important part of how users express themselves, activities such as the books people are reading, the movies people want to watch and the songs they are listening to are more prominently displayed throughout Facebook's Timeline and News Feed. This enables developer apps and websites to become a key part of the Facebook experience for users and can increase growth 6 and engagement for developers. •Social Plugins. Social plugins, such as the Like button, are social features that developers can easily integrate with their websites by incorporating a few lines of HTML code. Social Plugins enable developers to provide engaging and personalized social experiences to their users. •Payments. Facebook provides an online payments infrastructure that enables developers to receive payments from users through an efficient and secure system. Our Payments infrastructure enables users on personal computers to purchase virtual or digital goods from developers and third-party websites by using debit and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards or other methods. Currently, substantially all of our Payments revenue is from users' purchases of virtual goods used in social games. We receive a fee of up to 30% when users make such purchases from our Platform developers using our Payments infrastructure. Mobile applications integrated with our Platform do not utilize our Payments infrastructure. How We Create Value for Marketers We focus on providing value for all kinds of marketers, including brand marketers, direct marketers, small and medium-sized businesses, and developers by offering a unique combination of reach, relevance, social context, and engagement: •Reach. With over one billion MAUs, Facebook offers marketers the ability to reach a vast consumer audience. •Relevance. Marketers can target users on Facebook based on demographic factors such as age, location, gender, education, work history, and specific interests that users have chosen to share with us on Facebook. In addition, marketers may choose to match their own data or third-party data with ours, so they can find their customers - or those who look like them - directly on Facebook. We believe that users have a better experience when ads are effectively tailored and, therefore, more relevant to them. •Social Context. We believe that the recommendations of friends have a powerful influence on consumer interest and purchase decisions. We offer marketers the ability to include "social context" with their marketing messages. Social context is information that highlights a friend's connections with a particular brand or business. •Engagement. We believe that the shift to a more social web creates new opportunities for businesses to engage with interested customers. Many of our ad products offer new and innovative ways for our marketers to interact with our users, such as ads that encourage comments, include polls, invite people to an event or help users discover and install mobile applications. Any brand or business can have a presence on Facebook by creating a Facebook Page. Through Pages, we give brands the opportunity to form direct and ongoing relationships with their existing and prospective customers, with the potential to turn them into valuable advocates. When a Facebook user "Likes" a Page, the Page owner has the opportunity to publish stories to the person's News Feed on an ongoing basis. We believe that this ongoing connection provides businesses with a significant advantage as compared to advertising on traditional websites. In addition, businesses can use Pages to drive awareness, traffic to their e-commerce websites or physical stores, sales, and ultimately customer loyalty. We do not charge businesses for their Pages, nor do we charge for the resulting organic distribution of their content.  However, Page owners can use Facebook ads to reach a larger audience or utilize our Promoted Posts feature, which enables businesses to pay a fixed fee to boost the distribution of posts that they care about to people who have "Liked" the Page, to gain more prominent distribution. Facebook offers products and tools that enable marketers to leverage our unique combination of reach, relevance, social context, and engagement. •Facebook Ads.  Our ads, including sponsored stories, offer businesses the opportunity to direct a user to specific content, a destination web page or a Facebook Page if the user clicks on the ad. Our ads provide our users with a consistent ad experience and enable marketers to deploy and adjust campaigns rapidly. Currently, ads can appear in multiple locations including in the right-hand side of most page types on personal computers, and in the News Feed on personal computers and mobile devices. Ads with social context allow marketers to highlight the interactions of a user's friends with a brand or product, such as Liking or Commenting on the marketer's Facebook Page. Ads with social context respect users' privacy settings and may be shown only to the people users have already shared their activity with on Facebook. •Facebook Ad System. When marketers create an ad campaign on Facebook, they specify the types of users they want to reach based on information that users chose to share. In addition, marketers can use other products such as FBX and 7 Custom Audiences to more precisely target their desired audience. Marketers indicate the maximum price they are willing to pay for their ad, per click (CPC) or per thousand impressions (CPM), and their maximum budget. Our system also supports guaranteed delivery of a fixed number of ad impressions for a fixed price. Facebook's ad serving technology dynamically determines the best available ad to show each person based on the combination of the person's unique attributes and the real-time comparison of bids from eligible ads. •Ad Analytics and Facebook Insights. Marketers can use our analytics platform to track and optimize the performance of their campaigns. Facebook Ad Analytics enable marketers to gain insights into which ads were displayed and clicked on. These analytics help marketers make modifications to their ad campaigns to maximize results. For marketers with Facebook Pages, Facebook Insights provides timely information about the performance of their Page and related posts.  The data include the number of users who Liked and Commented on the Page and a metric, "People Talking About This," which shows how many stories about the marketer's brand are being created and shared, among other aggregated and anonymized engagement data. Our Strategy We are in the early stages of pursuing our mission to make the world more open and connected. We believe we have a significant opportunity to further enhance the value we deliver to users, developers, and marketers. Key elements of our strategy are: •Expand Our Global User Community. There are more than 1.5 billion internet users on personal computers, and more than three billion mobile users worldwide according to GSMA Wireless Intelligence, and we aspire to someday connect all of these people. As of December 31, 2012, we had 1.06 billion MAUs globally with approximately 84% accessing Facebook from outside the United States. We continue to focus on increasing the number of people using Facebook across all geographies, including relatively less-penetrated, large markets such as Brazil, India, Mexico and Japan. We intend to increase the size of our network by continuing our marketing and user acquisition efforts and enhancing our products, including mobile apps, in order to make Facebook more accessible, useful and engaging. •Build Great Social Products to Increase Engagement and Provide the Most Compelling User Experience. We prioritize product development investments that we believe will create engaging interactions between our users, developers, and marketers. We continue to invest significantly in improving our core products such as News Feed, Timeline, and Photos, developing new products, and enabling new Platform apps and website integrations. To provide the most compelling user experience, we continue to develop products and technologies focused on optimizing our social distribution channels to deliver the most useful content to each user by analyzing and organizing vast amounts of information in real time. •Make our Mobile Products Engaging and Easily Available. We are devoting substantial resources to developing mobile products and experiences for a wide range of platforms, including smartphones and feature phones. In addition, we are working across the mobile industry with operators, hardware manufacturers, operating system providers, and developers to improve the Facebook experience on mobile devices and make Facebook available to more people around the world. We had 680 million MAUs who used Facebook mobile products in December 2012. In August 2012, we acquired Instagram, Inc., which has built a mobile phone-based photo-sharing service that enables people to increase their levels of mobile engagement and sharing. We believe that mobile usage of Facebook is critical to user growth and engagement over the long term, and accordingly are prioritizing mobile product development. •Enable Developers to Build Great Social Products Using the Facebook Platform. The success of Platform developers and the vibrancy of our Platform ecosystem are part of our strategy to increase user engagement. Social games have achieved significant levels of adoption by people using Facebook, and we are also focused on working with leading app developers in categories such as news, movies, books, fitness and music. Engagement with our Platform developers' apps and websites can create value for Facebook in multiple ways: our Platform supports our advertising business because apps on Facebook create engagement that enables us to show ads; our Platform developers may purchase advertising on Facebook to drive traffic to their apps and websites; Platform developers use our Payment infrastructure to facilitate transactions with users on personal computers; Platform apps share content with Facebook that makes our products more engaging; and engagement with Platform apps and websites contributes to our understanding of people's interests and preferences, improving our ability to personalize content. We continue to invest in tools and APIs that enhance the ability of Platform developers to deliver products that are more social and personalized and better engage people on Facebook, on mobile devices and across the web. •Improve Ad Products for Marketers and Users. We are investing to improve our ad products in order to attract more marketers to work with Facebook, to create more value for our marketers, and to enhance their ability to make their advertising more relevant for users. Our advertising strategy centers on the belief that ad products that are social, relevant, and well-integrated with other content on Facebook can enhance the user experience while providing an attractive return 8 for marketers. We intend to invest in additional products for our marketers, such as ads in News Feeds on personal computers and mobile devices, while continuing to balance our monetization objectives with our commitment to optimizing the user experience. We will continue to work to develop new tools such as Custom Audiences that help marketers to target their ads most effectively and thereby increases their return on ad spend.  We also continue to focus on analytics and measurement tools to evaluate, demonstrate, and improve the effectiveness of ad campaigns on Facebook. •Build a Scalable Infrastructure to Provide the Most Compelling, Robust, and Reliable Product Experience.  We are investing in software and hardware infrastructure that enables us to provide a unique, personalized experience to each of our users around the world. We believe the speed and reliability of our products are important competitive advantages. Building and Maintaining User Trust Trust is a cornerstone of our business. We dedicate significant resources to the goal of building user trust through developing and implementing programs designed to protect user privacy, promote a safe environment, and assure the security of user data. The resources we dedicate to this goal include engineers, analysts, lawyers, policy experts, and operations specialists, as well as hardware and software from leading vendors and solutions we have designed and built. •Privacy and Sharing. People come to Facebook to connect and share. Protecting user privacy is an important part of our product development process. Our objective is to give users choice over what they share and with whom they share it. This effort is fundamental to our business and focuses on control, transparency, and accountability. - Control. We believe that by providing our users with clear and easy-to-use controls, we will continue to promote trust in our products. For example, when a user posts a status update or uploads a photo to Facebook, our in-line controls allow the user to select his or her audience at the same time that he or she is publishing the post. In addition, we provide other data management tools. "Activity Log" is a unified tool that people can use to review and manage the content they have posted and the actions they have taken on Facebook. When using the Activity Log, a user can view his or her activity with a particular app, delete a specific post, change who can see a photo, or remove an app completely. Additionally, our "Download Your Information" tool enables users to remove or store their personal information off of Facebook. -Transparency. Our Data Use Policy describes in plain language our data use practices and how privacy works on Facebook. We also offer a number of tools and features that provide users with transparency about their information on Facebook. Our application settings feature enables users to view each of the apps they have chosen to use, the information needed by each app, and the audience with whom the user has chosen to share his or her interactions with each app. We believe that this transparency enables people to make more informed decisions about their activities on Facebook. -Accountability. We continue to build new procedural safeguards as part of our comprehensive privacy program. These include a dedicated team of privacy professionals who are involved in new product and feature development from design through launch; ongoing review and monitoring of the way data is handled by existing features and apps; and rigorous data security practices. We regularly work with online privacy and safety experts and regulators around the world. In August 2012, the Federal Trade Commission formally approved a 20-year agreement to enhance our privacy program. We made a clear and formal long-term commitment to giving users tools to control how they share on Facebook. We also have undergone two audits by the Office of the Irish Data Protection Commissioner. The audits comprehensively reviewed our compliance with Irish data protection law, which is grounded in European data protection principles. As part of the audit process, we agreed to enhance various data protection and privacy practices to ensure compliance with the law and adherence to industry best practices. • Safety. We design our products to include safety tools. These tools are coupled with educational resources and partnerships with online safety experts to offer protections for all users, particularly teenagers. We take into account the unique needs of teenagers who use our service and employ age-appropriate settings that restrict their visibility, limit the audience with whom they can share, and help prevent unwanted contact from strangers. Our abuse reporting infrastructure allows anyone on Facebook to report inappropriate, offensive, or dangerous content through "report" links found throughout our site. We have enhanced this reporting system to include "Social Reporting," which gives users the option to report content to us, to report content to a trusted friend, or to block the person who posted the content with one easy-to-use tool. Our Safety Advisory Board, comprised of five leading online safety organizations from around the world, advises us on product design and helps us to create comprehensive safety resources for everyone who uses our service. These resources are located in our multimedia Family Safety Center on our website, which also offers special information for parents, educators, teenagers, and members of the law enforcement community. Additionally, we work with law enforcement to help promote the safety of our users as required by law. 9 •Security. We invest in technology, processes, and people as part of our commitment to safeguarding our users' information. We use a variety of techniques to protect the data that we are entrusted with, and we rely on multiple layers of network segregation using firewalls to protect against attacks or unauthorized access. We also employ proprietary technologies to protect our users. For example, if we suspect that a user's account may have been compromised, we may use a process that we refer to as "social authentication" to validate that the person accessing the account is the actual account holder. The process of social authentication may include asking the person accessing the account to identify photos of the account holder's friends. Our security team actively scans for security vulnerabilities using commercial tools, penetration tests, code security reviews, and internal and external audits. We also have a network of geographically distributed single-tenant data centers, and we take measures to protect the information stored in these data centers. Competition Our business is characterized by innovation, rapid change, and disruptive technologies.  We face significant competition in every aspect of our business, including from companies that provide tools to facilitate the sharing of information, that enable marketers to display personalized advertising and that provide development platforms for application- developers.  We compete with the following: •Companies that offer full-featured products that replicate the range of communications and related capabilities we provide.  These offerings include, for example, Google+, which Google has integrated with certain of its products, including search and Android, as well as other, largely regional, social networks that have strong positions in particular countries, such as Mixi in Japan and vKontakte and Odnoklassniki in Russia. •Companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that replicate discrete capabilities we provide, such as photo-sharing, messaging, and micro-blogging. •Companies that provide web- and mobile-based information and entertainment products and services that are designed to engage users. •Companies that offer platforms for game developers to reach broad audiences with free-to-play games including Apple's iOS and Google's Android mobile platforms. •Traditional and online businesses that provide media for marketers to reach their audiences and/or develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. We compete to attract, engage, and retain users, to attract and retain marketers, to attract and retain developers to build compelling apps and websites that integrate with Facebook, and to attract and retain highly talented individuals, especially software engineers, designers, and product managers. As we introduce new products, as our existing products evolve, or as other companies introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional competition. Technology We have assembled a team of highly skilled engineers and computer scientists whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas. We make significant investments in product and feature development, data management and personalization technologies, large-scale systems and scalable infrastructure, mobile technologies, and advertising technologies, including: •Product and Feature Development. We aim to improve our existing products continuously and to develop new products for our users, developers, and marketers. Our product development philosophy is centered on continuous innovation in creating products that are social by design, which means that our products are designed to place people and their social interactions at the core of the product experience. •Data Management and Personalization Technologies. To provide each user with a personalized Facebook experience, we must process and analyze a vast and growing amount of content shared by our users, developers, and marketers and surface the most relevant content in real time. As such, we invest extensively in developing technologies and analytics in areas including content optimization and delivery, graph query, media storage and serving, large-scale data management, and software performance. •Large-Scale Systems and Scalable Infrastructure. Our products are built on a shared computing infrastructure. We use a combination of off-the-shelf and custom software running on clusters of commodity computers to amass substantial computing capability. Our infrastructure has enabled the storage and processing of large datasets and facilitated the deployment of our products on a global scale. As our user base grows, and the level of engagement and sharing from our 10 users continues to increase, our computing needs continue to expand. We aim to provide our products rapidly and reliably to all users around the world, including in countries where we do not expect significant short-term monetization. As the number of international users increases we are investing in extending our infrastructure to be closer to our users wherever they are in the world. We are currently building our first major custom international datacenter presence in Lulea, Sweden, which is expected to be operational in the first half of 2013. •Mobile Technologies. In order to providing a high-quality experience on a wide variety of mobile devices and operating systems, we invest in developing novel techniques and technologies including: custom graphics rendering, operating system customizations, development tools, systems for customizing the user experience based on a variety of factors, and systems for monitoring the behavior of the applications in the field. •Advertising Technologies. We invest extensively in advertising technology capable of serving billions of ad impressions every day while maximizing the relevance of each impression to selected users based upon the information that users have chosen to share. Our system manages our entire set of ads, the selected audiences, and the marketers' bids to determine which ads to show each person and how to display them for every page on Facebook. We use an advanced click prediction system that weighs many real-time updated features using automated learning techniques. Our technology incorporates the estimated click-through rate with both the marketer's bid and a user relevancy signal to select the optimal ads to show. Our research and development expenses were $1.4 billion, $388 million and $144 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. For information about our research and development expenses, see Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Research and development" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Operations The majority of our marketers use our self-service ad platform to establish accounts and to launch and manage their advertising campaigns. We work directly with advertisers, through traditional advertising agencies and with an ecosystem of agencies that have a specialized focus on Facebook advertising. We also have a global sales force that is focused on attracting and retaining marketers and providing support to them throughout the stages of the advertising campaign cycle from pre-purchase decision making to real-time optimizations to post-campaign analytics. We currently operate more than 30 sales offices around the globe. We have operations teams to provide support for our users, developers, and marketers in five regional centers located in Menlo Park, California; Austin, Texas; Dublin, Ireland; Hyderabad, India; and Singapore. We also invest in and rely on self-service tools to provide direct customer support to our users, developers, and marketers. Marketing To date, the Facebook user community has grown virally with users inviting their friends to connect with them, supported by internal efforts to stimulate user awareness and interest. In addition we have invested and will continue to invest in marketing our services to build our brand and user base around the world. We leverage the utility of our products and our social distribution channels as our most effective marketing tools. In addition, we undertake various user acquisition efforts and regularly host events and conferences to engage with developers and marketers. Intellectual Property To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, including know-how, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. In addition, to further protect our proprietary rights, from time to time we have purchased patents and patent applications from third parties. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or copyright or groups of related patents or copyrights. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Government Regulation We are subject to a number of U.S. federal and state, and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet, many of which are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These may involve user privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. In particular, we are subject to federal, state, and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. Foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the United States. U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate. There 11 are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislative bodies, and foreign governments concerning data protection which could affect us. For example, a revision to the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive is currently being considered by legislative bodies that may include more stringent operational requirements for data processors and significant penalties for non-compliance. In August 2012, the FTC approved a settlement agreement with us to resolve an investigation into various practices, that, among other things, requires us to establish and refine certain practices with respect to treatment of user data and privacy settings and also requires we complete bi-annual independent privacy assessments. Violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Various laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, such as the Bank Secrecy Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and the Credit CARD Act, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. Under these laws and regulations, financial institutions are broadly defined to include money services businesses such as money transmitters, check cashers, and sellers or issuers of stored value. Requirements imposed on financial institutions under these laws include customer identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures, and transaction reporting. To increase flexibility in how our use of Payments may evolve and to mitigate regulatory uncertainty, we have applied through subsidiaries for certain money transmitter licenses in the United States and similar licenses in certain foreign countries, which will generally require us to show compliance with many domestic and foreign laws relating to money transmission, gift cards and other prepaid access instruments, electronic funds transfers, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, gambling, banking and lending, and import and export restrictions. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had 4,619 employees. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2004. We completed our initial public offering in May 2012 and our Class A common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "FB." Our principal executive offices are located at 1601 Willow Road, Menlo Park, California 94025, and our telephone number is (650) 308-7300. Facebook, the Facebook logo, FB, the Like Button, Instagram and our other registered or common law trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Facebook, Inc. or its affiliates. Other trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Notes 1 and 14 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information Our website address is www.facebook.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and file or furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at investor.fb.com when such reports are available on the SEC's website.  We use our investor.fb.com website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of investor.fb.com, in addition to following press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The public may read and copy any materials filed by Facebook with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 12