ITEM 1.BUSINESS Overview As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." As part of that, they also explained that you could expect us to make "smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses." From the start, the company has always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have. To help accelerate this, we announced plans in August 2015 to create a new public holding company, called Alphabet. Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which, of course, is Google. It also includes businesses that we combine as Other Bets and generally are pretty far afield of our main Internet products such as Verily, Calico, X, Nest, GV, Google Capital and Access/Google Fiber. Our Alphabet structure is about helping businesses within Alphabet prosper through strong leaders and independence. At Google, our innovations in search and advertising have made our website widely used and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. We generate revenues primarily by delivering online advertising that consumers find relevant and that advertisers find cost-effective. Google's core products such as Search, Android, Maps, Chrome, YouTube, Google Play and Gmail each have over one billion monthly active users. And we believe we are just beginning to scratch the surface. Google's vision is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems. Our Other Bets are also making important strides in their industries, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the long term. Serving Our Users In many ways Google search -- and the clean white page with the blinking cursor -- is a metaphor for how we think about innovation. Imagining the ways things could be -- without constraint -- is the process we use to look for better answers to some of life's everyday problems. It's about starting with the "What if?" and then working relentlessly to see if we can find the answer. It's been that way from the beginning; providing ways to access knowledge and information has been core to Google and our products have come a long way in the last decade. We used to show just ten blue links in our results. You had to click through to different websites to get your answers, which took time. Now we are increasingly able to provide direct answers -- even if you're speaking your question using Voice Search -- which makes it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. Over time, we have added other services that let you access information quickly and easily. What if we could develop a smarter email service with plenty of storage? That's Gmail. What if we could make a simpler, speedier, safer browser? That's Chrome. What if we could provide easy access to movies, books, music and apps, no matter which device you're on? That's Google Play. What if developers could use Google's infrastructure to easily build and scale applications? And what if people could collaborate and get work done from anywhere on any device? That's cloud and apps. As devices proliferate, it's more and more important to ensure that you can navigate effortlessly across them -- that the technology gets out of the way, so you can move through this multi-screen world as easily as possible. It's why we're investing so much in platforms like our Chrome browser, Chrome OS and our Android mobile operating system. Ultimately, we want you to have speedy, secure access to whatever you need, wherever you happen to be, and on whatever device you may be using at the time. Ads as Answers We asked, what if ads weren't intrusive and annoying? What if we could deliver a relevant ad at just the right time and give people useful commercial information? What if we could provide products that allow for better attribution and measurement across screens so that we show great ads for the right people? Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across screens and devices. We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising. •Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. 2 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc. and Google Inc. For performance advertisers, AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program, helps create simple text-based ads that appear on Google websites and the websites of Google Network Members, who use our advertising programs to deliver relevant ads alongside their search results and content. In addition, our partners that comprise the Google Network use our AdSense program to deliver relevant ads that generate revenues and enhance the user experience. These programs let both small and large businesses connect with users looking for a specific item, say a pair of shoes or a plane ticket back home. To that end, we continue to invest in our advertising programs and to make significant upgrades, including Estimated Total Conversions, which help advertisers measure the effectiveness of their campaigns in a multi-screen world. •Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns and in turn, generate revenue by distributing their ads such as the TrueView ads displayed on our YouTube videos. We have built a world-class ad technology platform for brand advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of the effectiveness of brand advertising. Furthermore, we have invested significantly in programmatic advertising to help advertisers reach users when and where it matters, giving them access to top-tier inventory across screens and formats, as well as the real-time insights that advertisers need to make their buys count. We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging from removing hundreds of millions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites and apps that show our ads and blacklisting them when necessary to ensure that our ads do not fund bad content. Bringing the Next 5 Billion Online Fast search and high-quality ads matter only if you have access to the Internet. Right now, only a fraction of the seven billion people in the world are fortunate enough to be able to get online. That leaves out billions of people. With so much useful and life-changing information available today, it is unfortunate that such a significant portion of the world's population lacks even the most basic Internet connection. Those people will be able to learn and start businesses, to grow and prosper in ways they simply could not without an Internet connection. Creating platforms for other people's success is a huge part of who we are. We want the world to join us online and to be greeted with the best possible experience once they get there. Connection is powerful; and we are working hard to make it a reality for everyone. The opportunities to improve lives on a grand scale are endless. And there are people around the world whose lives we can improve every day by bringing information into their homes, into their schools, and into their pockets -- showing them just how powerful the simple idea of "getting online" can be. At Google, we are helping people get online by tailoring hardware and software experiences that suit the needs of emerging markets, primarily through Android and Chrome. We're also making sure our core Google apps are fast and useful, especially for users in areas where speed, size and connectivity are central concerns. Other Alphabet companies are pursuing initiatives with similar goals too. That's why we're investing in new projects, like Project Loon. We asked, what if we could use a network of balloons that could fly at the edge of space and provide connectivity in rural and remote areas? Loon has helped students in Brazil and farmers in New Zealand experience the power of an internet connection for the first time. And as the program expands, we hope to bring this to more and more people -- creating opportunities that simply did not exist before for millions of people, all around the world. Moonshots The idea of trying new things is reflected in some of our new, ambitious projects both within Google and Other Bets. Everything might not fit into a neat little box. We believe that is exactly how to stay relevant. Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android, and when we launched Chrome. But as those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices, and a safer, popular browser, respectively, we continue to look towards the future and continue to invest for the long-term. 3 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc. and Google Inc. We won't become complacent, relying solely on small tweaks as the years wear on. As we said in the 2004 Founders' IPO Letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success. We won't stop asking "What if?" and then working hard to find the answer. As explained in the letter from our CEO in August 2015, our Alphabet reorganization was implemented to better allow us to structure teams in ways that we believe will produce the fastest, most focused innovation possible for moonshot projects. Research We continue to invest in our existing products and services, including search and advertising, as well as developing new products and services through research and product development. We often release early-stage products. We then use data and user feedback to decide if and how to invest further in those products. Our research and development expenses, which includes the vast majority of engineering and technical headcount responsible for research and development, as well as their associated costs, were $7.1 billion, $9.8 billion, and $12.3 billion in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively, which included stock-based compensation expense of $1.6 billion, $2.2 billion, and $2.7 billion, respectively. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and building systems to develop new products and services and improve existing ones. Competition Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from: •General purpose search engines and information services, such as Yahoo, Microsoft's Bing, Yandex, Baidu, Naver, WebCrawler, and MyWebSearch. •Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Kayak (travel queries), LinkedIn (job queries), WebMD (health queries), and Amazon and eBay (e-commerce). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google. •Social networks, such as Facebook and Twitter. Some users are increasingly relying on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines. •Other forms of advertising, such as television, radio, newspapers, magazines, billboards, and yellow pages. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline. •Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Criteo, AppNexus, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers with AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program. •Other operating systems and mobile device companies. •Providers of online products and services that provide answers, information, and services. A number of our online products and services, including Gmail, YouTube, and Google Docs, compete directly with new and established companies, which offer communication, information, storage and entertainment services, either on a stand-alone basis or integrated into other offerings. Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to rapidly deliver innovative products and technologies to the marketplace so that we can attract and retain: •Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, primarily on the basis of the relevance and usefulness of our search results and the features, availability, and ease of use of our products and services. •Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels. •Content providers (Google Network Members, the parties who use our advertising programs to deliver relevant ads alongside their search results and content, as well as other content providers for whom we distribute or license content), primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them. Intellectual Property We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign 4 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc. and Google Inc. countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. Culture and Employees We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we like to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels. Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and wherever possible empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their role or function within the company. We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. We work to provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers addressing some of the biggest challenges in technology and society. Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2015, we had 61,814 full-time employees: 23,336 in research and development, 19,082 in sales and marketing, 10,944 in operations, and 8,452 in general and administrative functions. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. Seasonality Our business is affected by both seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas Please refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Matters As part of the Alphabet reorganization, we expect to convert Google Inc. into a limited liability company. Available Information Our websites are located at www.google.com and www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can get information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 5 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc. and Google Inc.