ITEM 1.BUSINESS Overview As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history -- inspiring us to do things like rethink the mobile device ecosystem with Android and map the world with Google Maps. As part of that, our founders also explained that you could expect us to make "smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses." From the start, the company has always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have. Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which, of course, is Google. It also includes businesses that are generally pretty far afield of our main Internet products such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Our Alphabet structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. Access and technology for everyone The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers, capable of propelling new ideas and people forward. At Google, our mission is to make sure that information serves everyone, not just a few. So whether you're a child in a rural village or a professor at an elite university, you can access the same information. We are helping people get online by tailoring digital experiences to the needs of emerging markets. We're also making sure our core Google products are fast and useful, especially for users in areas where speed and connectivity are central concerns. Other Alphabet companies are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. For instance, in October 2017, Project Loon within X deployed its network of stratospheric balloons to deliver basic internet connectivity to more than 100,000 people in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria. Moonshots Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success. The power of machine learning Across the company, machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations. Within Google, our investments in machine learning over a decade have enabled us to build products that are smarter and more useful -- it's what allows you to use your voice to ask the Google Assistant for information, to translate the web from one language to another, to see better YouTube recommendations, and to search for people and events in Google Photos. Machine learning is also showing great promise in helping us tackle big issues, like dramatically improving the energy efficiency of our data centers. Across Other Bets, machine learning helps self-driving cars better detect and respond to others on the road, and can also improve the ability of clinicians to detect diseases such as diabetic retinopathy. Google Serving our users We have always been a company committed to making big bets that have the potential to improve the lives of millions of people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google's core products and platforms such as Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube each have over one billion monthly active users. But most important, we believe we are just beginning to scratch the surface. Our vision is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems. As the majority of Alphabet’s big bets continue to reside within Google, an important benefit of the shift to Alphabet has been the tremendous focus that we’re able to have on Google’s many extraordinary opportunities. 3 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc. Google’s mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful has always been our North Star, and our products have come a long way since the company was founded nearly two decades ago. Instead of just showing ten blue links in our search results, we are increasingly able to provide direct answers -- even if you're speaking your question using Voice Search -- which makes it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. You can also type or talk with the Google Assistant in a conversational way across multiple devices like phones, speakers, headphones, televisions and more. And with Google Lens, you can now use your phone’s camera to identify an unfamiliar landmark or find a trailer from a movie poster. Over time, we have also added other services that let you access information quickly and easily -- like Google Maps, which helps you navigate to a store while showing you current traffic conditions, or Google Photos, which helps you store and organize your photos. This drive to make information more accessible has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. And with the migration to mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content. Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. That’s why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, and Daydream virtual reality platform, as well as growing our family of great hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful, make your life easier, and even get better over time, by combining the best of Google's AI, software, and hardware. This is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products like the newest additions to the Google Home family called Mini and Max, Pixel 2 phone, and Pixelbook laptop. Creating beautiful products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long run. Google was a company built in the cloud and has been investing in infrastructure, security, data management, analytics, and AI from the very beginning. We have continued to enhance these strengths with features like data migration, modern development environments and machine learning tools to provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and G Suite, to our customers. Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on Google’s highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Our G Suite productivity tools -- which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Hangouts, and more -- are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence to help people work smarter. Because more and more of today’s great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently. How we make money The goal of our advertising business is to deliver relevant ads at just the right time and to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device they’re using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns across screens. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across screens and formats. We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising. •Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. For performance advertisers, AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program, helps create simple text-based ads that appear on Google properties and the properties of Google Network Members. In addition, Google Network Members use our AdSense program to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. We continue to invest in our advertising programs and make significant upgrades. •Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. We have built a world-class ad technology platform for brand advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of brand advertising so advertisers know when their campaigns are effective. 4 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc. We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging from filtering out invalid traffic, removing hundreds of millions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blacklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content. Beyond our advertising business, we also generate revenues in other areas, such as digital content, enterprise cloud services, and hardware. Other Bets Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabet’s Other Bets are early-stage businesses, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. To do this, we make sure we have a strong CEO to run each company while also rigorously handling capital allocation and working to make sure each business is executing well. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. For instance, Nest recently expanded its connected home product line by introducing the Nest Thermostat E and a new home security solution that includes the Nest Hello video doorbell, Nest Cam IQ outdoor security camera, and the Nest Secure alarm system. Our self-driving car company, Waymo, continues to progress the development and testing of its technology and now has a fleet of vehicles in Phoenix, Arizona, driving without a person behind the wheel. Life sciences company Verily has also made significant progress on key programs, like the launch of its Project Baseline study with Duke University and Stanford Medicine, and received an $800 million investment in 2017 from Temasek to accelerate its strategic programs. We continue to build these businesses thoughtfully and systematically to capitalize on the opportunities ahead. We are investing for the long term while being very deliberate about the focus, scale and pace of investments. We generate revenues from internet and TV services, licensing and R&D services, and Nest branded hardware. Competition Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from: •General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon's Yahoo, and Yandex. •Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Kayak (travel queries), LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google. •Social networks, such as Facebook, Snap, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines. •Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline. •Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising platform. •Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Facebook, Hulu, and Netflix. •Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer electronics products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms. •Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft. •Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon, Apple, and Microsoft. Competing successfully in our advertising-related businesses depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace so that we can attract and retain: •Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, primarily on the basis of the relevance and usefulness of our search results and the features, availability, and ease of use of our products and services. •Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels. 5 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc. •Content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them. Intellectual Property We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. Culture and Employees We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we like to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels. Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and wherever possible empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their role or function within the company. We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. We work to provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers addressing some of the biggest challenges in technology and society. Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2017, we had 80,110 full-time employees. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. Seasonality Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. Other Items Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time, and we’ve long been committed to improving our energy consumption. In 2012, we set a goal to reach 100% renewable energy for our operations. While we are still performing final analysis for the year, in 2017, we purchased a total wind and solar capacity of about three gigawatts, which we expect will be enough renewables to match the energy consumption of our global operations. We continue to invest in our existing products and services as well as developing new products and services through research and product development. We often release early-stage products. We then use data and user feedback to decide if and how to invest further in those products. Research and development expenses include the vast majority of engineering and technical headcount responsible for research and development of our existing and new products and services, as well as their associated costs. For more information, please refer to the Consolidated Statements of Income included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information about segments and geographic areas, please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As part of the Alphabet reorganization, we converted Google Inc. into a limited liability company in September 2017. Available Information Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can get information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, 6 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc. governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.