ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk We transact business globally in multiple currencies. Our international revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. In general, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro and Japanese yen. We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency options and forwards reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency collars and forwards offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We record the effective portion of these contracts as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. For foreign currency collars, we include the change in time value in our assessment of hedge effectiveness. For forwards and all other option contracts, we exclude the change in the forward points and time value 43 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc. from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes of the excluded components in other income (expense), net. We considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced in the near term. If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $920 million and $950 million lower as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The change in the value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized. In addition, we use foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the subsidiary.  These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on the assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward contracts. We considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. These reasonably possible adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currencies at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term. These changes would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $40 million and $52 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. The adverse impact as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 is after consideration of the offsetting effect of approximately $554 million and $374 million, respectively, from foreign exchange contracts in place for the months ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017. Interest Rate Risk Our investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity requirements. We invest primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Unrealized  gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as a result of higher market interest rates compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. We account for both fixed and variable rate securities at fair value with changes on gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold. To enhance our assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we use value-at-risk (VaR) analysis to determine the potential impact of fluctuations in interest rates on the value of our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. We use a variance/covariance VaR model with 95% confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of our marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 are shown below (in millions): As of December 31, 12-Month Average As of December 31, 2016 2017 2016 2017Risk Category - Interest Rate$107  $84  $99  $87 Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation. 44 Table of ContentsAlphabet Inc.