Item 1. Business: International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 90 years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today: The company creates value for clients through integrated solutions and products that leverage: data, information technology, deep expertise in industries and business processes, and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. IBM solutions typically create value by enabling new capabilities for clients that transform their businesses and help them engage with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting and IT implementation services, cloud and cognitive offerings, and enterprise systems and software; all bolstered by one of the world's leading research organizations. Strategy IBM has transformed throughout its 100+ year history, and in its current transformation, IBM is leading a reordering of the technology industry. In 2014, the company's strategic imperatives were declared around the three main forces behind "digital": big data and analytics, cloud and engagement. Since 2010, IBM has invested approximately $30 billion in these areas, built out the IBM Cloud on a global scale, established the Watson Group, announced 50 acquisitions and entered into major partnerships, including the landmark alliance with Apple to bring mobile to the enterprise. As IBM's clients transform, "digital" itself is not the destination, but a foundation to create a truly Cognitive Enterprise. This is resulting in new types of interactions between people, organizations and machines. Through these developments, IBM is emerging as more than a hardware, software and services company; IBM is transforming into a cognitive solutions and cloud platform company. Key tenets of the company's highly differentiated strategy include: Cognitive Solutions:    Cognitive, advanced analytics and key data are being integrated into all leading solutions. Cloud Platform:    New solutions will be built on the IBM Cloud and the company's offerings will be cloud-enabled. The company is continuing to build the premier cloud stack, developer environment and most secure hybrid cloud platform in the industry. Industry Focus:    Because industry context is so important to the value of IBM's solutions, these solutions will be built for the needs of individual industries and professions. Cognitive Solutions Since 2011 when IBM's Watson was introduced, IBM has been developing a new generation of cognitive systems that can see and analyze the massive amounts of data that have previously been invisible to computers and enterprises. Cognitive systems have the capability to inject a kind of thinking ability into every digitalized object, process and service. IBM is on the forefront of deploying these systems and assisting clients to become truly Cognitive Enterprises. 1 Cognitive systems are not programmed; like humans, they learn from experts, from every interaction, and from big data. They are enabled to learn by using advanced algorithms to sense, predict and infer. Ultimately they can augment human intelligence, allowing individuals to make more informed decisions. For the past five years, IBM has continued to invest in Watson, including dedicating $100 million to venture investments to support start-ups building cognitive apps through the Watson Developer Zone on Bluemix. IBM is also making Watson more widely available through the Watson Ecosystem, which has grown to more than 500 partners. Paired with Watson is the company's core big data and analytics business. IBM has invested over $15 billion in these areas since 2010, including over $7 billion on more than 20 acquisitions. Nearly half of IBM Research's spending is focused on analytics and cognitive. IBM's leading-edge cognitive technology is only the starting point. The company is developing entirely new solutions businesses around that cognitive capability. In 2015, the Watson Health unit was formed, which is IBM's first business unit designed around a single industry. Watson Health will create cognitive solutions that can better help doctors diagnose and anticipate disease; it will recommend treatments that are tailored to individuals; and it will assist researchers to predict and prevent the next generation of diseases. Another set of cognitive solutions IBM is building is the Internet of Things (IoT). It is estimated that there are more than 9 billion connected devices operating in the world today, generating 2.5 quintillion bytes of new data daily. Watson IoT will bring the power of cognitive to the challenge of extracting and analyzing data embedded in intelligent devices in real time. In addition, the recent closure of The Weather Company acquisition essentially expands the company's IoT platform; with one that collects, integrates and analyzes data from three billion weather forecast reference points, including satellites, weather stations, airplanes, consumer apps and more for IBM and our clients. Through Cognitive, IBM is ushering in a new era for the industry and for clients. Cloud Platform Cloud is at the heart of the "digital" revolution. No enterprise is untouched by this revolution and the shifts are occurring rapidly. Enterprises are benefiting from cloud by using it to transform their information technology (IT) and business processes into digital services. Cloud brings two compelling sources of value: <U+0095> Innovation:  In addition to cloud enabling the sharing of infrastructure, the real promise of cloud is innovation. By forcing greater levels of standards throughout the technology value chain, new products and services, and even entire business models, can be created in weeks rather than months or years.      <U+0095> Hybrid:  Data, cloud and engagement are powerful forces changing the landscape of technology and businesses. Enterprises need to bring this new world of technology together with their existing systems in order to capture their full value. Hybrid cloud brings together the back-end systems infrastructure with the new strategic imperative "digital" technologies. Unless the new and traditional IT worlds are brought together, they will be isolated within the enterprise. IBM servers and storage can handle mobile transactions, compose and expose APIs and integrate across hybrid clouds to unlock new value from data. Making applications work across on-premise, public and private cloud environments is what hybrid cloud is all about. This requires a deep understanding of both traditional and new IT models, something that IBM is unique in bringing to its clients: 2 <U+0095> In traditional IT, for example, the z Systems mainframe is used by all of the top 25 global banks and almost three-quarters of the top 25 U.S. retailers. In addition, 70 percent of the top 25 Fortune 500 companies rely on IBM to manage their critical IT infrastructures.    <U+0095> In the new world of IT, the IBM Cloud has become the standard for enterprise-grade cloud<U+0097>bringing performance and the integration across all IT. The company continues to build cloud into Global Technology Services' (GTS) large base of outsourcing relationships.    <U+0095> Each of these areas of IT requires uncompromising security. IBM Security brings to clients advanced technologies in fraud and threat protection, identity and access management, application and data security, mobile and cloud security. IBM's systems are among the most secure in the world with advanced encryption, threat monitoring and tracking and behavioral analytics. Further, high-end security consulting brings the expertise of 6,000 dedicated security specialists. Built on big data analytics, IBM manages over 20 billion security events per day on 2.5 million desktops for 12,000 clients through its Security Operations Centers. IBM's Cloud platform includes: <U+0095> IBM Cloud's Infrastructure-as-a-Service, which offers bare metal, private cloud and virtual server instances, enabling it to cover many different workloads with unprecedented performance. IBM's platform also has tremendous geographic reach<U+0097>with 46 cloud centers around the globe.     <U+0095> Bluemix is IBM's Platform-as-a-Service, built on the open standards foundation of Cloud Foundry and powered by IBM Cloud's infrastructure. Bluemix offers cloud-based services, APIs and leading third-party services to developers in an integrated platform. With $1 billion of investment, Bluemix is now the largest Cloud Foundry development, has a significant number of services and is onboarding thousands of developers per week.    <U+0095> IBM Cloud Marketplace brings together the company's extensive portfolio of cloud capabilities, providing a self-service, digital experience for developers, IT and business leaders. IBM has a significant number of Software-as-a-Service offerings and visitors to the Marketplace have access to an extensive and growing portfolio of cloud capabilities from IBM and qualified third-party vendors.    <U+0095> In 2015, IBM acquired: Blue Box Group, Inc. (private cloud), Compose (database-as-a-service), StrongLoop, Inc. (developer technology), Cleversafe, Inc. (object-based storage), Gravitant, Inc. (cloud brokerage) and Clearleap, Inc. (cloud- based video).    <U+0095> The Weather Company acquisition in January 2016, whose dynamic cloud data platform powers the fourth most-used daily mobile app in the United States and handles 26 billion inquiries to its cloud-based services each day. This high-volume cloud platform processes, analyzes and distributes enormous data sets at scale in real time. It adds an important dimension to the company's cloud platform.    <U+0095> IBM has entered into strategic partnerships all focused on bringing innovative data and analytics solutions to the market. The IBM Cloud is the most powerful platform for enterprise-grade environments, bringing clients unparalleled levels of security, performance and scalability. Industry Focus IBM's solutions and platforms are most relevant in the context of each client's industry. General-purpose tools have their place, but the company can unlock much greater value in building solutions for the specific needs of an industry. In this context, Industries are the focus. Watson Health is an example of how the company is defining solutions around industry needs. In addition to Watson Health, in 2015, 20 new industry-specific analytics solutions were launched with 3 pre-built predictive analytics capabilities. These include solutions that allow clients to mine customer data for hidden insights for action, spot fraud or risk and predict vulnerabilities to preempt before they occur. These solutions, which are tailored specifically for retail, banking, telecommunications, insurance and others, will make it easier and faster for organizations to uncover and act on critical business insights. In addition, IBM has announced over 100 apps through its alliance with Apple that bring value in the context of individual industries. Complementing the power of the company's technology solutions is the industry expertise of IBM's Global Business Services consulting business. It is the combination of IBM's technology and services, which enable clients to achieve their business outcomes. Summary Each successive transformation of IBM has brought something new and innovative to the world. More than 50 years ago, IBM brought forward a revolutionary transactional computer called the mainframe. In the decades that followed, IBM commercialized the personal computer, created an industry around IT services and a software market around middleware. Each of these innovations is with the world today; they were built to last. The company's next chapter is ushering in an entirely new era of human-organization-computer interaction<U+0097>embodied in Cognitive Solutions and the Cloud Platform. Business Model The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping enterprise clients to become more innovative, efficient and competitive through the application of business insight and IT solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have superior long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients. The company's global capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide integrated solutions and platforms to the company's clients. The business model is dynamic, adapting to the continuously changing industry and economic environment, including the company's transformation into cloud and as-a-service delivery models. The company continues to strengthen its position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value areas while divesting certain businesses. In addition, the company is transforming into a more agile enterprise helping to drive productivity, which supports investments for participation in markets with significant long-term opportunity. This business model, supported by the company's financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term. Business Segments and Capabilities The company's major operations consists of five business segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services, which the company collectively calls Global Services, Software, Systems Hardware and Global Financing. In late February 2016, the company plans to meet with investors to discuss changes in the business, which will result in a change in the company's reportable segments beginning in the first quarter of 2016. Global Services: is a critical component of the company's strategy of providing IT infrastructure and business insight and solutions to clients. These solutions include industry-leading IBM software and 4 systems, as well as other suppliers' products if a solution requires it. Approximately 60 percent of external Global Services segment revenue is annuity based, coming primarily from outsourcing and maintenance arrangements. The Global Services backlog provides a solid revenue base entering each year. Within Global Services, there are two reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services. Global Technology Services (GTS) provides IT infrastructure services, creating business value for clients through integrated services, incorporating unique intellectual property within its global delivery model. By leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM's global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading-edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility, cost and outcomes. GTS Capabilities Strategic Outsourcing: delivers comprehensive IT outsourcing services focused on clients' enterprise IT infrastructure environments to enable digital transformation and consistently deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The company integrates long-standing expertise in service management and technology with the ability to exploit the power of new technologies from IBM systems and software, such as cloud computing, analytics, cognitive computing and virtualization, to deliver high performance, innovation and improved ability to achieve business objectives. Integrated Technology Services: delivers a portfolio of project-based and managed services that enable clients to transform and optimize their IT environments by driving efficiency, flexibility and productivity. The portfolio is built around a key set of solutions addressing systems, mobility, resiliency, networking, cloud and security. This portfolio includes key assets and intellectual property and incorporates best practices and proven methodologies that ensure high quality delivery, security and compliance. Cloud: delivers a comprehensive set of hybrid cloud services including assisting clients with building their own private clouds, building customized dedicated managed clouds, allowing clients to leverage standardized cloud infrastructure services from the SoftLayer and Cloud Managed Services offerings; and creating environments linking their private and public workloads together. This portfolio of cloud offerings spans across the GTS business lines. Technology Support Services (Maintenance Services): delivers a complete line of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the availability of clients' IT infrastructures. Global Business Services (GBS) has the mission to deliver predictable business outcomes to the company's clients across: Consulting and Systems Integration, Application Management Services and Process Services. These professional services deliver business value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry and business process expertise. The role of GBS is to drive initiatives that integrate IBM content and solutions and drive the progress of the company's strategic imperatives. As clients transform themselves in response to market trends like big data, social and mobile computing, GBS helps clients use these technologies to reinvent relationships with their customers and realize new standards of efficacy and efficiency in the internal processes, data and applications that they use to run their businesses. In 2015, GBS announced the industry's first practice dedicated to cognitive business, Cognitive Business Solutions. GBS Capabilities Consulting and Systems Integration: delivers client value with solutions in Strategy and Transformation, Application Innovation Services, Enterprise Applications and Smarter Analytics. 5 Consulting is also focused on bringing to market client solutions that drive smarter commerce, cloud, mobile and social business. Application Management Services: delivers application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as application testing and modernization, cloud application services, the company's highly differentiated globally integrated capability model, industry knowledge and the standardization and automation of application management. Global Process Services: (included within Application Management Services) delivers a range of offerings consisting of standardized through transformational solutions including processing platforms and business process outsourcing. These services deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure. Software consists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware serves as a software layer that connects operating systems to applications across a standard software platform. The IBM Middleware portfolio allows seamless integration of unrelated systems, processes, and applications all while providing market leading functionality, in both on-premise and hybrid cloud environments. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. Approximately 70 percent of external Software segment revenue is annuity based, coming from recurring license charges, software sold "as-a-Service" and ongoing post-contract support. The remaining revenue relates to one-time charge (OTC) arrangements in which clients pay one, up-front payment for a perpetual license. Typically, the sale of OTC software includes one year of post-contract support. Clients can also purchase ongoing post-contract support after the first year, which includes unspecified product upgrades and technical support. Software Capabilities WebSphere: delivers capabilities that enable organizations to run high-performance business applications. With these applications, clients can integrate and manage business processes across their organizations with the flexibility and agility they need to respond to changing conditions. Built on services-oriented architecture (SOA), and open standards support for cloud, mobile and social interactions, the WebSphere platform enables enterprises to extend their reach and optimize interactions with their key constituents. Smarter Commerce software helps companies better manage and improve each step of their value chain and capitalize on opportunities for profitable growth, efficiency and increased customer loyalty. Information Management: enables clients to integrate, manage and analyze enormous amounts of data from a large variety of sources in order to gain competitive advantage and improve their business outcomes. With this approach, clients can extract real value out of their data and use it to make better business decisions. IBM's middleware and integrated solutions include advanced database management, information integration, data governance, enterprise content management, data warehousing, business analytics and intelligence, predictive analytics and big data analytics. Tivoli: helps clients optimize the value they get from their infrastructures and technology assets through greater visibility, control and automation across their end-to-end business operations. These asset management solutions foster integrated service delivery for cloud and datacenter management, enterprise endpoint and mobile device management, asset and facilities management, and storage management. Tivoli includes security systems software that provides clients with a single security intelligence platform that enables them to better secure all aspects of their enterprise and prevent security breaches. Workforce Solutions: enables businesses to connect people and processes for more effective communication and increased productivity through collaboration, messaging and social networking 6 software. By remaining at the forefront of collaboration tools, IBM's social business offerings help organizations reap real benefits associated with social networking, as well as create a more efficient and effective workforce. Rational: supports software development for both IT and complex embedded system solutions, with a portfolio of products and solutions supporting DevOps and Smarter Product Development, transforming the way lines of business, development and operations work together to deliver innovation via software. In January 2015, the company made several changes designed to more effectively align its key capabilities and resources to its strategic imperatives. These changes have enabled the company to respond more quickly to critical client agendas and drive higher value. Across Software, the company is transitioning its portfolio to capture growth and continue to drive innovation. The focus is centered around analytics, security, and commerce, utilizing its software assets to improve speed and agility in bringing integrated solutions to its clients and to help clients become cognitive enterprises. Watson: the first commercially available cognitive computing platform that has the ability to interact in natural language, processing vast amounts of big data, and learning from its interactions with people and computers. As an advisor, Watson is able to sift through and understand large amounts of data delivering insights with unprecedented speeds and accuracy. Watson Health: a business unit focused on the health industry, built upon the foundation of the work done with Watson and the momentum of Cloud. This team of consultants, medical practitioners, clinicians, developers and researchers work with an extensive ecosystem of partners and clients to advance the quality and effectiveness of individual health with advanced data analytics and insights. Watson Internet of Things (IoT) in today's world, physical devices of all types are now instrumented with compute capabilities that allow for direct sensing and communication of data. IBM's focus is enabling companies to use that data to improve operations, drive new business and work directly with clients. Systems Hardware provides clients with innovative infrastructure technologies to help meet the new requirements of hybrid cloud and cognitive workloads<U+0097>from deploying advanced analytics, to moving to digital service delivery with the cloud, and securing mobile transaction processing. Approximately half of Systems Hardware's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners; with the balance direct to end-user clients. IBM Systems also designs and procures advanced semiconductor devices for use in the company's systems. Systems Hardware Capabilities Servers: a range of high-performing systems designed to address capacity, security, speed and compute power needs for businesses, organizations and technical computing applications. The portfolio includes z Systems, a trusted enterprise platform for integrating data, transactions and insight, and Power Systems, a system designed from the ground up for big data, optimized for scale-out cloud and Linux, and delivering open innovation with OpenPOWER. The company is also a founding member of the OpenPOWER foundation, a group of industry-leading companies working together to develop high-performance compute solutions based on the IBM POWER architecture. Storage: data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization including data deduplication, availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of software-defined storage solutions, flash storage, disk and tape storage solutions. 7 Technology: In 2014, the company announced a definitive agreement to divest its Microelectronics business and manufacturing operations. This transaction closed in 2015. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients' acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise. The financing arrangements are predominantly for products or services that are critical to the end users' business operations. These financing contracts are entered into after a comprehensive credit evaluation and are secured by legal contracts. As a captive financier, Global Financing has the benefit of both deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services financed. These factors allow the business to effectively manage two of the major risks, credit and residual value, associated with financing while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also maintains a long-term partnership with the companies' clients through various stages of IT asset life cycle<U+0097>from initial purchase and technology upgrades to asset disposition decisions. Global Financing Capabilities Client Financing: lease, installment payment plan and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms up to seven years. Assets financed are primarily IT products and services where the company has expertise. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Global Services' long-term client service contracts. Global Financing also factors a selected portion of the company's accounts receivable, primarily for cash management purposes. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions. Commercial Financing: short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to suppliers, distributors and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Remanufacturing and Remarketing: assets include used equipment returned from lease transactions, or used surplus equipment acquired internally or externally. These assets may be refurbished or upgraded and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally or internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Systems Hardware and Global Services. Systems Hardware may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients. IBM Worldwide Organizations The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients: <U+0095> Sales and Distribution    <U+0095> Research, Development and Intellectual Property    <U+0095> Integrated Supply Chain Sales and Distribution IBM has a significant global presence, operating in more than 175 countries, with an increasingly broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company's Sales and Distribution organization manages the IBM global footprint, with dedicated country-based operating units focused on delivering unique value and a superior client experience. Within these units, client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to enable clients' business growth and innovation. These teams deliver value by understanding the clients' business and needs, and then bringing together capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement client solutions. 8 By combining global expertise and digital sales capabilities with local experience, IBM's geographic structure enables client relationships through dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align industry solution, product and services expertise to serve clients' agendas. IBM also extends the reach of its capabilities to commercial clients by leveraging industry skills with digital marketing, digital sales and local Business Partner resources. The company continues to invest to capture the long-term opportunity in key growth markets around the world<U+0097>India, China and countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. The company's major markets include the G7 countries of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (UK) plus Austria, the Bahamas, Belgium, the Caribbean region, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. Research, Development and Intellectual Property IBM's research and development (R&D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests approximately 6 percent of total revenue for R&D, focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and the company's business units through global labs on near-term and midterm innovations. It contributes many new technologies to IBM's portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research also explores the boundaries of science and technology<U+0097>from nanotechnology and future systems, to big data analytics, secure clouds and advancing the world's first cognitive computing platform, IBM Watson. In 2015, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company for the 23rd consecutive year. IBM's 7,355 patents awarded in 2015 position the company to compete and lead in the emerging opportunities represented by big data and analytics, security, social and mobile technologies. These inventions will advance IBM's cloud platform and the new era of computing in which machines will learn, reason and interact with people in more natural ways. The company continues to actively seek intellectual property (IP) protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its IP leadership. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. While the company's various proprietary IP rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Integrated Supply Chain IBM has an extensive integrated supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. In 2015, the company also managed approximately $24 billion in procurement spending for its clients through the Global Process Services organization. The supply, manufacturing and logistics operations are seamlessly integrated and have optimized inventories over time. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved sales force productivity and operational effectiveness and efficiency. Supply chain resiliency enables IBM to reduce its risk during marketplace changes. The company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain providing a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients. IBM leverages its supply chain expertise for clients through its supply chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end supply chain processes, from procurement to logistics. Utilizing analytics, mobile, cloud and social<U+0097>with numerous projects, has allowed the integrated supply chain to drive positive business outcomes for the company and its clients. 9 COMPETITION The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, operating in more than 175 countries. The company participates in a highly competitive environment, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across its business segments, the company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide. Across its business, the company's principal methods of competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to clients; and service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and integrate. The company has been executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through organic investments and strategic acquisitions. As the company executes its strategy, it enters new markets, such as cloud, business analytics and "as-a-service" solutions, which exposes the company to new competitors. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments. A summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below: Global Services: The services segments, GTS and GBS, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. GTS competes in strategic outsourcing, cloud services, and a wide range of technical and IT support services. GBS competes in consulting, system integration, application management and business process outsourcing services. The principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, industry knowledge and experience, value and speed, price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in the services business include its global reach and scale, global delivery model, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise, services assets, an ability to deliver integrated solutions that can address clients' needs in any environment and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. The company competes with broad based competitors including: Accenture, Alphabet Inc. (Google), Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon), Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise (HPE) and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft); India-based service providers; the consulting practices of public accounting firms; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas. Software: The enterprise management software market is highly competitive, and increasingly technology companies are looking to implement software solutions that will improve business outcomes for their clients. The key competitive factors in this segment include: functionality, ease-of-use, scalability, open standards, total cost-of-ownership and business value. IBM's leadership in each of these areas, and the ability to deliver solutions that drive business results, provides it with competitive advantages. The company's software business includes middleware and solutions software offerings, delivered both on-premise and "as-a-service", and operating systems. The middleware portfolio is the broadest in the industry and covers both mainframe and distributed computing environments. The middleware portfolio also underpins IBM's solutions business and enhances the business value the company brings to clients. The solutions portfolio provides comprehensive business and industry-specific offerings to new types of IT decision makers, such as chief marketing and procurement officers, chief information security officers and chief financial officers. The depth and breadth of the software offerings, coupled with the company's global sales and technical support infrastructure, differentiate the software business from its competitors. The company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent 10 portfolio also contribute to this segment's leadership. The company's principal competitors in this segment include CA, Inc., Microsoft, Oracle Corporation (Oracle), Salesforce.com and SAP. The company also competes with smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets worldwide. Systems Hardware: The enterprise server and storage market is characterized by technology and service innovation, with competition focused on value, function, reliability, price and cost performance. New entrants are leveraging innovation in technology and delivery of services to compete against traditional providers and offerings. The company's principal competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), Dell, Inc., EMC Corporation, HPE, Pure Storage and Oracle. Additionally, infrastructure-as-a-service providers such as Amazon Web Services who offer IT as a service and original device manufacturers who offer re-branded, lower cost system hardware alternatives compete with the company in this area. The company's investments in virtualization technologies, software optimization capabilities, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and the ability of its systems platforms to leverage the entire system<U+0097>from the company's custom semiconductors through the software stack to increase efficiency, lower cost and improve performance<U+0097>provide the company with competitive advantages in this segment. In addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's leadership. Global Financing: Global Financing provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. Global Financing's access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive advantage for the company. The key competitive factors include price, IT product expertise, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business, global capabilities and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of companies in providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of companies such as Cisco and HP and non-captive financing entities of companies such as General Electric Company and banks or financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market. Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are based on the company's current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements by their nature address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on pages 13 to 19 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other 11 factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference. The following information is included in IBM's 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference: Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or services<U+0097>pages 141 to 146. Financial information by geographic areas<U+0097>page 145. Amount spent during each of the last three years on R&D activities<U+0097>page 123. Financial information regarding environmental activities<U+0097>page 114. The number of persons employed by the registrant<U+0097>page 69. The management discussion overview<U+0097>pages 18 to 22. Available information<U+0097>page 151. Also refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form. Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 23, 2016): Age    Officer since     Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer*     58     2005    Colleen F. Arnold, Senior Vice President, IBM Sales and Distribution     58     2010    Michelle H. Browdy, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel     51     2015    Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, IBM Sales and Distribution     57     2010    Bruno V. Di Leo Allen, Senior Vice President, IBM Sales and Distribution     58     2012    Diane J. Gherson, Senior Vice President, Human Resources     58     2013    Jon C. Iwata, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications     53     2002    Martin Jetter, Senior Vice President, IBM Global Technology Services     56     2014    James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President, Transformation and Operations     49     2008    John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President, IBM Cognitive Solutions and IBM Research     62     2000    Kenneth M. Keverian, Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy     59     2014    Arvind Krishna, Senior Vice President and Director, IBM Research     53     2015    Robert J. LeBlanc, Senior Vice President, IBM Cloud     57     2010    Robert J. Picciano, Senior Vice President, IBM Data and Analytics Platforms     51     2014    Michael D. Rhodin, Senior Vice President, IBM Watson Business Development     55     2010    Thomas W. Rosamilia, Senior Vice President, IBM Systems     55     2013    Martin J. Schroeter, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     51     2014    Stanley J. Sutula III, Vice President and Controller     50     2015    Bridget A. van Kralingen, Senior Vice President, IBM Global Business Services     52     2012 *Member of the Board of Directors. All executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders as provided in the By-laws. Each executive officer named above, with the exception of Kenneth M. Keverian, has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years. Mr. Keverian was a Senior Partner at the Boston Consulting Group, a global management consulting firm, until joining IBM in 2014. He was with Boston Consulting Group for 26 years and he focused on serving technology companies in the computing and communications sectors. 12