Item 1. Business: International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 90 years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today<U+0097>the company creates value for clients through integrated solutions and products that leverage data, information technology, deep expertise in industries and business processes, and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. IBM solutions typically create value by enabling new capabilities for clients that transform their businesses and help them engage with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting and IT implementation services, cloud and cognitive offerings, and enterprise systems and software; all bolstered by one of the world's leading research organizations. Strategy IBM has a history of continuous re-invention, transforming itself throughout its 100-plus year history. In the past five decades alone, IBM has ushered in the eras of the mainframe, the personal computer, IT services and enterprise software. In its current transformation, IBM is once again leading the reordering of the technology industry. A number of years ago, the company declared its focus on the strategic forces behind the "digital" revolution; data, cloud and engagement, driven by mobile and social, and underpinned by security. Since 2010, IBM has invested approximately $40 billion in these areas, built out the IBM Cloud on a global scale and extended cognitive systems to numerous enterprises and industries. The company made 55 acquisitions and has formed partnerships with organizations that are leading players in key industries. Because of this transformation, IBM today is much more than a hardware, software and services company; IBM is a cognitive solutions and cloud platform company, with a focus on industry capabilities and expertise: Cognitive Solutions:    With the highest level of intelligence that exists in technology systems, these solutions tackle challenges ranging from answering client inquiries to helping physicians fight cancer. Cloud Platform:    IBM Cloud is the leading cloud platform for the enterprise, providing what enterprises need for speed, agility and, combined with Watson, for cognitive capability. Industry Focus:    As IBM brings higher levels of value to its clients, as its offerings are being built for the needs of individual industries. Healthcare and Financial Services are two examples of the company's initial cognitive focus. Cognitive Solutions Since IBM's Watson was introduced in 2011, the company has been developing a new generation of cognitive systems that can see and analyze the massive amounts of data that have previously been invisible to computers and enterprises. IBM's cognitive systems have the capability to inject a kind of thinking ability into every digitized object, process and service, and learn from interactions. IBM is on the forefront of deploying these systems and helping clients to embrace the cognitive era. 1 Cognitive systems are not programmed; like humans, they learn from experts and from every interaction, and they are uniquely able to find patterns in big data. They learn by using advanced algorithms to sense, predict and infer. Doing so, they augment human intelligence, allowing individuals to make faster and more informed decisions. Since Watson's debut, many technologies have entered the market under the banner of artificial intelligence. However, IBM's approach to cognitive systems is quite unique: <U+0095> Highly adaptable intelligence systems: Watson has broad applicability and can help clients tackle challenges ranging from oncology to customer support.    <U+0095> Protect and respect client data: Watson learns through data, both public data as well as clients' private data. Clients choose whether their data or insights are shared. IBM respects the clients' ownership and control of their own data.    <U+0095> Easy entry points: Watson's open APIs offer easy on-ramps to experiment with speech, vision and other data.     <U+0095> Trained in domain depth: Watson is trained to be an expert in industries and functional specialties. It augments the knowledge of professionals, giving them access to the insights of their best colleagues and the world's leading experts.    <U+0095> Transformational services: IBM's Cognitive Solutions and Watson Internet of Things (IoT) practices help clients build their cognitive strategies. GBS provides outcome-focused methodologies, domain skills and deep industry expertise. Cloud Platform Cloud represents more than a new architecture for delivering infrastructure and applications as services; it is also a catalyst for innovation, speed and agility. Cloud enables companies to focus on differentiating their strategies, capabilities and business models rather than on the underlying technology. The IBM Cloud brings a unique set of characteristics to clients: <U+0095> It is a world-class cloud platform designed for enterprises, where security, reliability, scalability and performance are critical.     <U+0095> It is the industry-leading hybrid cloud, enabling clients to extend their existing IT investments, connecting valuable data and applications across public and private clouds.    <U+0095> It is a world-class cognitive cloud platform with IBM Watson services that developers can embed into their applications to create differentiating customer experiences and powerful insights. The IBM Cloud has a strong global presence, with more than 50 cloud data centers around the world giving clients the flexibility to optimize the deployment of data and application, for performance, security and compliance. The IBM Cloud is also continually expanding its base of advanced capabilities including cloud data services, cloud object storage, cloud video services, as well as Internet of Things, blockchain and analytics services. In 2016, IBM brought new cognitive solutions to professionals in marketing, commerce, supply chain and human resources, extending industry clouds to further differentiate its cloud offerings. Industry Focus To bring higher value to clients, IBM is providing solutions that are specific and tailored to challenges clients face in their industry, using the power of IBM's advanced cognitive computing 2 capabilities built on the IBM Cloud. In 2016, IBM deepened its commitment to delivering higher value in several key ways: <U+0095> In the healthcare industry, IBM Watson Health combines the power of cloud and cognitive with value-based solutions to optimize performance, engage consumers, enable effective care and manage population health. Significant investment in the healthcare space, including the acquisition of Merge and Truven, has enabled the company to expand the scope of solutions aimed at solving some of the most pressing health challenges.    <U+0095> IBM continues to partner with financial services clients to build a robust infrastructure addressing increasingly complex and fast-changing demands. From preventing fraud to supporting cyber security efforts, IBM is becoming ever-more essential to the financial industry.    <U+0095> IBM offers analytics to help clients assess their risk and compliance against industry guidelines, and uses a cognitive approach to provide deeper and faster findings. In late 2016, the company acquired Promontory Financial Group, LLC (Promontory), one of the world's leading regulatory consulting firms. Promontory is training Watson to be a market-leading expert in the regulatory field, which will allow the company to deliver services at new levels of efficiency and transparency.    <U+0095> IBM is committed to blockchain to provide a highly secure method of facilitating multi-step transactions, reducing the number of disputes and points of friction, including its participation in the Hyperledger Project. This cross-industry consortium is working to build the blockchain network in the cloud, doing for trusted transactions what the Internet did for information, and setting industry standards for years to come. Blockchain will enable financial institutions to settle securities in minutes instead of days; manufacturers to reduce product recalls by sharing production logs along their supply chain; and businesses of all types to more closely manage the flow of goods and payments. IBM is working with companies ranging from retailers, banks and shippers to apply this technology to transform their ecosystems through open standards and open platforms.    <U+0095> IBM's Global Business Services consulting business, with broad expertise across industries and a strong global footprint and scale, provides a unique combination of technologies and services to help clients achieve their business outcomes. Transforming Core Businesses While the company is focused on cognitive solutions, cloud platform and industry, it is important to note cognitive, cloud and industry are being embedded across IBM's offerings. These core businesses continue to run clients' most critical business processes. IBM's hardware systems are being designed from the ground up to power the cloud and cognitive systems of the future. The company's technology services help clients move to the cloud, embedding cognitive capabilities tailored for their industry. The company's software offerings are simultaneously being made available for the cloud as well as being connected to the cloud where our clients choose to keep them on premises. Additionally, cognitive capabilities are being added to these offerings to provide new levels of innovation. In short, all of IBM is transforming to support the way its clients are transforming. Summary Each transformation of IBM ushers in a new capability to the world. More than 50 years ago, IBM introduced the programmable era and transformed the world's transactions through the mainframe. In the decades that followed, IBM commercialized the personal computer, created an industry around IT services and a software market around middleware. Each of these innovations remains essential to business and the world today. 3 The company's current chapter is ushering in an entirely new era of human-computer interaction, embodied in cognitive solutions and the cloud platform for the needs of industries. The company is embarking on an era where it will create new capabilities at speeds and depth never previously witnessed. Business Model The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping enterprise clients to become more innovative, efficient and competitive through the application of business insight and IT solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have superior long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients. The company's global capabilities as a cognitive solutions and cloud platform company include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide integrated solutions and platforms to the company's clients. The business model is dynamic, adapting to the continuously changing industry and economic environment, including the company's transformation into cloud and as-a-Service delivery models. The company continues to strengthen its position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value areas, strengthening its industry expertise and applying advanced analytics across virtually all its offerings. In addition, the company is transforming into a more agile enterprise to drive innovation and speed, as well as helping to drive productivity, which supports investments for participation in markets with significant long-term opportunity. This business model, supported by the company's financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term. Business Segments and Capabilities The company's major operations consist of five business segments: Cognitive Solutions, Global Business Services, Technology Services & Cloud Platforms, Systems and Global Financing. Cognitive Solutions comprises a broad portfolio of capabilities that help IBM's clients to identify actionable new insights and inform decision-making for competitive advantage. Leveraging IBM's research, technology and industry expertise, this business delivers a full spectrum of capabilities, from descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics to cognitive systems. Cognitive Solutions includes Watson, the first commercially available cognitive computing platform that has the ability to interact in natural language, process vast amounts of big data, and learn from interactions with people and computers. These solutions are provided through the most contemporary delivery methods including through cloud environments and "as-a-Service" models. Cognitive Solutions consists of Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software. Cognitive Solutions Capabilities Solutions Software: provides the basis for many of the company's strategic areas including analytics, security and social. IBM has established the world's deepest portfolio of data and analytics solutions, including analytics and data management platforms, cloud data services, enterprise social software, talent management solutions, and solutions tailored by industry. Watson Platform, Watson Health and Watson Internet of Things capabilities are included in Solutions Software. IBM's world-class security platform delivers integrated security intelligence across clients' entire operations, including their cloud, applications, networks and data, helping them to prevent, detect and remediate potential threats. 4 Transaction Processing Software: includes software that primarily runs mission-critical systems in industries such as banking, airlines and retail. Most of this software is on-premise and annuity in nature. Global Business Services (GBS) provides clients with consulting, application management services and global process services. These professional services deliver business value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry, technology and business process expertise. GBS is the digital reinvention partner for IBM clients, combining industry knowledge, functional expertise, and applications with the power of design, cognitive and cloud. The full portfolio of GBS services is backed by its globally integrated delivery network and integration with IBM solutions and services including Watson, cloud, blockchain, and Technology Services. To deepen its capabilities, in 2016 IBM acquired four consulting and design firms to enhance the GBS global network of 35 digital experience design studios. IBM also announced Watson IoT Consulting Solutions, a new practice that brings together IBM's industry and technical expertise to help clients introduce IoT innovation into their businesses. GBS Capabilities Consulting: provides business consulting services focused on bringing to market solutions that help clients shape their digital blueprints and customer experiences, define their cognitive operating models, set their next-generation talent strategies and create new technology visions and architectures in a cloud-centric world. Application Management: delivers system integration, application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as security and privacy, application testing and modernization, cloud application migration and automation. Global Process Services: GBS' business process outsourcing service line, delivers finance, procurement, HR, and industry-specific business processes. These services deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure. GBS is redefining the efficiency and cost profiles of clients' core processes through the application of the power of Watson, cognitive and deep analytics. Technology Services & Cloud Platforms provides comprehensive IT infrastructure services creating business value for clients through integrated services that incorporate unique intellectual property within its global delivery model. By leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM's global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility, cost and outcomes. Technology Services & Cloud Platforms Capabilities Infrastructure Services: delivers a portfolio of cloud, project-based, outsourcing and other managed services focused on clients' enterprise IT infrastructure environments to enable digital transformation and deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The portfolio includes a comprehensive set of hybrid cloud services and solutions to assist clients in building and running enterprise IT environments that utilize public and private clouds and traditional IT. The IBM Cloud Platform offers leading edge services to developers and IBM's Cloud Infrastructure-as-a-Service covers a wide variety of workloads with unprecedented performance. These offerings integrate long-standing expertise in service management and technology with the ability to utilize the power of new technologies, including those from other IBM business segments. The portfolio is built around a key set of predictive and proactive solutions addressing systems, mobility, resiliency, networking, cloud and security. The company's capabilities, including IBM Cloud, cognitive computing and hybrid cloud implementation, can help to deliver high-performance, end-to-end innovation and an improved ability to achieve business objectives. 5 Technical Support Services: delivers a comprehensive line of support services to maintain and improve the availability of clients' IT infrastructures. These offerings include maintenance for IBM products and other technology platforms, as well as software and solution support. Integration Software: delivers industry-leading hybrid cloud solutions that empower clients to achieve rapid innovation, hybrid integration, and process transformation with choice and consistency across public, dedicated and local cloud environments, leveraging IBM's Bluemix Platform-as-a-Service solution. Integration Software offerings and capabilities help clients address the digital imperatives to create, connect and optimize their applications, data and infrastructure on their journey to become cognitive businesses. Systems provides clients with innovative infrastructure technologies to help meet the new requirements of hybrid cloud and cognitive workloads<U+0097>from deploying advanced analytics, to moving to digital service delivery with the cloud, and securing mobile transaction processing. Approximately half of Systems Hardware's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners, with the balance direct to end-user clients. IBM Systems also designs advanced semiconductor and systems technology in collaboration with IBM Research, primarily for use in the company's systems. Systems Capabilities Servers: a range of high-performance systems designed to address computing capacity, security and performance needs of businesses, hyperscale cloud service providers and scientific computing organizations. The portfolio includes z Systems, a trusted enterprise platform for integrating data, transactions and insight, and Power Systems, a system designed from the ground up for big data and analytics, optimized for scale-out cloud and Linux, and delivering open innovation with OpenPOWER. The company is a founding member of the OpenPOWER foundation, a group of industry-leading companies developing high-performance compute technologies and solutions based on the IBM POWER architecture. Storage: data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information and to fuel data-centric cognitive applications. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization including data deduplication, availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of software-defined storage solutions, flash storage, disk and tape storage solutions. Operating Systems Software: The company's z/OS is a security-rich, scalable, high-performance enterprise operating system for z Systems. Power Systems offers a choice of AIX or Linux operating systems. These operating systems leverage POWER architecture to deliver secure, reliable and high- performing enterprise-class workloads across a breadth of server offerings. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients' acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise. The financing arrangements are predominantly for products or services that are critical to the end users' business operations. These financing contracts are entered into after a comprehensive credit evaluation and are secured by legal contracts. As a captive financier, Global Financing has the benefit of both deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services financed. These factors allow the business to effectively manage two of the major risks, credit and residual value, associated with financing while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also maintains a long-term partnership with the companies' clients through various stages of IT asset life cycle<U+0097>from initial purchase and technology upgrades to asset disposition decisions. 6 Global Financing Capabilities Client Financing: lease, installment payment plan and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms up to seven years. Assets financed are primarily new and used IT hardware, software and services where the company has expertise. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Technology Services & Cloud Platforms' long-term client service contracts. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions. Commercial Financing: short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to suppliers, distributors and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. This includes internal activity where Global Financing factors a selected portion of the company's accounts receivable primarily for cash management purposes, at arm's-length rates. Remanufacturing and Remarketing: assets include used equipment returned from lease transactions, or used and surplus equipment acquired internally or externally. These assets may be refurbished or upgraded and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally or internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Systems and Technology Services & Cloud Platforms. Systems may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients. IBM Worldwide Organizations The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients: <U+0095> Global Markets (formerly Sales and Distribution)    <U+0095> Research, Development and Intellectual Property    <U+0095> Integrated Supply Chain Global Markets IBM has a global presence, operating in more than 175 countries with a broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company's Global Markets organization manages IBM's global footprint, working closely with dedicated country-based operating units to serve clients locally. These country teams have client relationship managers who lead integrated teams of consultants, solution specialists and delivery professionals to enable clients' growth and innovation. These local teams develop deep relationships with their clients to bring together capabilities from IBM and its network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions. By complementing local expertise with global experience and digital capabilities, IBM builds broad-based client relationships. This local management focus fosters speed in addressing new markets and making investments in emerging opportunities. The Global Markets organization serves clients with expertise in their industry as well as through the products and services that IBM and partners supply. IBM is also expanding its reach to smaller clients through digital marketing, digital marketplaces, inside sales and local Business Partner resources. IBM continues to invest to capture opportunities in key growth markets around the world<U+0097>India, China and Southeast Asia; Eastern Europe; the Middle East and Africa; and Latin America. Major IBM markets include the G7 countries of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.), as well as Austria, the Bahamas, Belgium, the Caribbean, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. 7 Research, Development and Intellectual Property IBM's research and development (R&D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests 6 to 7 percent of total revenue for R&D, focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and the company's business units through global labs on near-term and midterm innovations. It contributes many new technologies to IBM's portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research scientists are conducting pioneering work in artificial intelligence, analytics, security, nanotechnology, cloud computing, blockchain, quantum computing, silicon and post-silicon computing architectures, data-centric systems and more<U+0097>applying these technologies across industries including healthcare, Internet of Things, education and financial services. In 2016, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company for the 24th consecutive year. IBM's 8,088 patents awarded in 2016 represent a diverse range of inventions in artificial intelligence and cognitive computing, cognitive health, cloud, cybersecurity and other strategic growth areas for the company. The company continues to actively seek intellectual property (IP) protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its IP leadership. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. As part of its business model, the company licenses certain of its intellectual property, which is high-value technology, but may be in more mature markets. The licensee drives the future development of the IP and ultimately expands the customer base. This generates IP income for the company both upon licensing, and with ongoing royalty arrangements between it and the licensee. While the company's various proprietary IP rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Integrated Supply Chain IBM has an extensive integrated supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. Additionally, growth in client spend managed by IBM's procurement organization continues to demonstrate clients' faith that IBM can reduce clients' cost through the transformation of source-to-pay operations. The supply, manufacturing and logistics operations are seamlessly integrated and have optimized inventories over time. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved sales force productivity and operational effectiveness and efficiency. Supply chain resiliency enables IBM to reduce its risk during marketplace changes. The company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain providing a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients. IBM leverages its supply chain expertise for clients through its supply chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end supply chain processes, from procurement to logistics. Utilizing analytics, mobile, cloud and social<U+0097>with numerous projects, has allowed the integrated supply chain to drive positive business outcomes for the company and its clients. 8 COMPETITION The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, operating in more than 175 countries. The company participates in a highly competitive environment, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across its business segments, the company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide. Across its business, the company's principal methods of competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to clients; and service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and integrate. The company has been executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through organic investments, partnerships and strategic acquisitions. As the company executes its strategy, it has entered into new markets, such as cloud and cognitive, including business analytics and "as-a-service" solutions, which exposes the company to new competitors. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments. A summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below: Cognitive Solutions: The Cognitive Solutions segment leads the burgeoning market for artificial intelligence infused software solutions. Increasingly, technology companies are looking to implement software solutions that will take advantage of the massive amounts of data businesses hold in order to improve business outcomes for their clients. The Watson platform is integrated throughout the Cognitive Solutions segment. Watson is the first commercially available cognitive computing capability, representing a new era in computing. Delivered through the cloud, the platform analyzes high volumes of data, understands complex questions posed in natural language, and proposes evidence-based answers. Watson continuously learns in three ways: by being taught by its users, by learning from prior interactions, and by being presented with new information. Its key competitive factors include a wide range of powerful cognitive services<U+0097>from conversation services and machine vision to deep learning. IBM is unique amongst its competitors in providing transparency so users and decision makers can see the data sources and training methods and thus have confidence in the recommendations. The insights produced by IBM's cognitive systems are trained and designed for specific industries including Health, Financial Services, Education, Retail and others. Specifically, Cognitive Solutions includes solutions software, delivered both on-premise and "as-a-service", and transaction processing software. The solutions software portfolio, which spans Watson data management, analytics, security, and social capabilities, provides comprehensive business and industry-specific offerings to IT decision makers. IT buyers include chief information officers as well as line of business buyers, such as chief marketing and procurement officers, chief information security officers and chief financial officers. The transaction processing software portfolio, mostly delivered on-premise, runs mission-critical systems in industries such as banking, airlines and retail. The depth and breadth of the software offerings, coupled with the company's global markets and technical support infrastructure, differentiate its capabilities from its competitors. The company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio also contribute to its differentiation. The company's principal competitors in this segment include Alphabet Inc. (Google), Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon) Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), Oracle Corporation (Oracle), Salesforce.com and SAP. The company also competes with smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets worldwide. 9 Global Business Services and Technology Services & Cloud Platforms: The company's services segments, Global Business Services and Technology Services & Cloud Platforms, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. The principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, industry knowledge and experience, value and speed, price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in these businesses include its global reach and scale, global delivery model, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise, services assets, an ability to deliver integrated solutions that can address clients' needs in any environment and with a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. Global Business Services: GBS competes in consulting, systems integration, application management and business process outsourcing services. The company competes with broad based competitors including: Accenture, Capgemini, Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu, Google, Hewlett-Packard (HPE) and Microsoft; India-based service providers; the consulting practices of public accounting firms; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas. Technology Services & Cloud Platforms: Technology Services & Cloud Platforms competes in strategic outsourcing, cloud services, and a wide range of technical and IT support services. The company competes with broad based competitors including: Accenture, Amazon, Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu, Google, HPE and Microsoft; India-based service providers; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas. This segment also includes the company's Integration Software offerings. Integration Software helps clients address the digital imperatives to create, connect and optimize their applications, data and infrastructure on their journey to become cognitive businesses. The company competes with Amazon, BMC, Microsoft, Oracle, VMWare as well as companies that primarily focus on niche solutions and offerings. Systems: The enterprise server and storage market is characterized by competition in technology and service innovation focused on value, function, reliability, price and cost performance. The company's principal competitors include Dell Technologies, HPE, Intel, Pure Storage, Oracle, and lower cost original device manufacturer systems that are often re-branded. Also, alternative as-a-service providers are leveraging innovation in technology and service delivery both to compete with traditional providers and to offer new routes to market for server and storage systems. These alternative providers include Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and IBM's own cloud-based services. The company gains advantage and differentiation through investments in higher value capabilities<U+0097>from semiconductor through software stack innovation<U+0097>that increase efficiency, lower cost and improve performance. The company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's leadership across areas as diverse as high performance computing, virtualization technologies, software optimization, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and open technologies like interconnect standards to be leveraged by broad ecosystems. 10 Global Financing: Global Financing provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. Global Financing's access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive advantage for the company. The key competitive factors include price, IT product expertise, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business, global capabilities and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of companies in providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of IT companies such as Cisco and HP, non-captive financing entities of companies such as General Electric Company and banks or financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market. Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are based on the company's current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements by their nature address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on pages 12 to 18 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference. The following information is included in IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference: Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or services<U+0097>pages 150 to 154. Financial information by geographic areas<U+0097>page 154. Amount spent during each of the last three years on R&D activities<U+0097>page 132. Financial information regarding environmental activities<U+0097>page 123. The number of persons employed by the registrant<U+0097>page 76. The management discussion overview<U+0097>pages 27 to 30. Available information<U+0097>page 159. Also refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form. 11 Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 28, 2017): Age    Officer since     Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer*     59     2005    Michelle H. Browdy, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel     52     2015    Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, IBM Global Markets     58     2010    Robert F. Del Bene, Vice President and Controller     57     2017    Diane J. Gherson, Senior Vice President, Human Resources     59     2013    James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President, Transformation and Operations     50     2008    John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President, IBM Cognitive Solutions and IBM Research     63     2000    Kenneth M. Keverian, Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy     60     2014    Martin J. Schroeter, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     52     2014 *Member of the Board of Directors. All executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors annually as provided in the By-laws. Each executive officer named above, with the exception of Kenneth M. Keverian, has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years. Mr. Keverian was a Senior Partner at the Boston Consulting Group, a global management consulting firm, until joining IBM in 2014. He was with Boston Consulting Group for 26 years and he focused on serving technology companies in the computing and communications sectors.