Item 1. Business: International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 85 years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today: The company creates business value for clients and solves business problems through integrated solutions that leverage information technology and deep knowledge of business processes. IBM solutions typically create value by reducing a client's operational costs or by enabling new capabilities that generate revenue. These solutions draw from an industry leading portfolio of consulting, delivery and implementation services, enterprise software, systems and financing. STRATEGY IBM's strategy is one of innovation, transformation and a constant evolution to higher value. The company delivers innovative solutions, software and infrastructure to improve client outcomes. The company helps enterprises apply technology to capture new value across their entire organizations, and it provides a differentiated client experience through a highly engaged and skilled global workforce and a broad ecosystem of partners. The ultimate goal of this strategy is to deliver on IBM's purpose of making our company essential to clients, employees, partners, investors and communities. Three strategic imperatives shape our approach as we continuously transform IBM and align the company for higher value. 1. Make Markets by Transforming Industries and Professions with Data The emergence of big data as the world's new natural resource is the phenomenon of our time. It is being fueled by the proliferation of mobile devices, the rise of social media and the infusion of technology into all things and processes. Today, enterprises must harness data to create competitive advantage. The value for enterprises increases as they apply more sophisticated analytics across more disparate data sources. Their real-time use of data will increasingly become a competitive differentiator. Enterprises will also need cognitive computing capabilities as data continues to grow in all dimensions. Therefore, IBM's strategy is to make markets by transforming industries and professions with data. The company has invested more than $22 billion, including $15 billion on more than 30 acquisitions, to build its capabilities in big data and analytics. One third of IBM's research is focused on data, analytics and cognitive computing. The company is investing $1 billion in Watson solutions to build out the next era of cognitive systems and services. In 2013, the company realized $15.7 billion in business analytics revenue. The original target for this business was to achieve $16 billion in revenue in 2015<U+0097>as a result of this performance the company has taken its 2015 objective for business analytics revenue to $20 billion. 2. Remake Enterprise IT for the Era of Cloud Enterprises are increasingly relying on cloud, which is being fueled by abundant bandwidth, the emergence of standards and the demand for consumability. They are benefitting from cloud by using it to transform their IT and business processes into digital services, to reinvent their core business processes and to drive innovation. Enterprises are integrating public and private clouds with back-end systems to create hybrid, dynamic environments. They will increasingly need to manage their cloud environments with the same rigor as an on-premise datacenter. Therefore, IBM's strategy is to remake enterprise IT 1 for the era of cloud. The company has invested over $6 billion to acquire more than 15 companies related to cloud, and is investing more than $1 billion to expand its global footprint to 40 datacenters worldwide. IBM now has more than 100 SaaS offerings, and IBM cloud supports 24 of the top 25 Fortune 500 companies. All of this drove $4.4 billion of revenue for cloud-based solutions in 2013. 3. Enable "Systems of Engagement" for Enterprises and Lead by Example. Social, mobile and unprecedented access to data are changing how individuals are understood and engaged. A new class of individual is emerging: one that is empowered with knowledge, enriched by networks and expects value in return for its information. Enterprises must create a systematic approach to engage this new class of individual and increase its speed and responsiveness by becoming mobile. Interactions need to be personalized to offer more value. In addition, enterprises will benefit from securing information and increasing trust. Therefore, IBM's strategy is to enable "systems of engagement" for enterprises; and the company is leading by example. IBM has acquired 20 companies related to mobile, social and security. IBMers are collaborating in more than 200,000 internal social communities and 85 percent of IBM's sellers use the company's Sales Connect portal. In 2013, the company's mobile, social and security portfolio generated double-digit revenue growth with mobile increasing 69 percent, security 19 percent and social business 45 percent. To capture the opportunities arising from these strategic imperatives, IBM is focused on four key growth initiatives: Smarter Planet, Business Analytics, Cloud Computing and Growth Markets. Smarter Planet Smarter Planet is IBM's strategy to lead in a technology-enabled world that is more instrumented, interconnected and intelligent than ever before, allowing people and organizations to address significant business and societal challenges. At the heart of this strategy are solutions that drive innovation and outcomes for clients<U+0097>extending the boundaries of businesses, industries and communities. It is about helping the company's clients become better at what they do for their customers. IBM does this through advanced, integrated solutions based on capabilities such as analytics for business and physical systems, cloud computing, mobile, social business and business process management. IBM continues to deepen its commitment to delivering on the promise of Smarter Planet for both line of business executives (CFOs, CHROs, CMOs, etc.) as well as IT executives across a broad range of industries. IBM's industry-based approach and solutions are grounded in a deep understanding of the distinct set of challenges and opportunities that are confronting companies and executives in various industries. Whether 'smarter' means helping a bank to retain more customers through world-class mobile solutions, a hospital group to deliver highly individualized care coordinated with social services, a local government to anticipate and alleviate traffic congestion before it happens, or a retail chain to provide a seamless customer experience across multiple channels, IBM is developing and investing in a portfolio of replicable industry solutions to help clients achieve their goals and drive important outcomes for their customers. There are several areas of focus within the Smarter Planet strategy, including IBM's Social Business, MobileFirst, Smarter Commerce and Smarter Cities initiatives. IBM's Social Business initiative helps clients integrate social capabilities across core business processes to drive measurable business results. The Social Business initiative can unlock the intrinsic knowledge of people within an organization to help companies fuel customer-centric innovation, improve productivity and expand sales, loyalty and advocacy. To capitalize on the new market opportunities that arise from a digital economy, IBM Social Business can let clients apply increasingly sophisticated analytics to gain actionable insight and to more effectively engage with customers. Behavioral, human data is the newest form of data and can be used to build a stronger, more agile workforce and reinvent human capital management by applying behavioral sciences across the talent 2 lifecycle. The Social Business initiative is powered by world class IBM services and software, developed organically by IBM and through acquisitions. In 2013, the company launched IBM MobileFirst, a unified approach to help clients and partners deliver best-in-class mobile solutions, take advantage of more commercial opportunities and provide a superior customer experience. IBM has a breadth of expertise and technology to help organizations efficiently build and deploy mobile applications, maintain visibility and control over their mobile infrastructure, engage customers in context and transform the value chain in ways that can drive growth and return on investment. The company can help its clients achieve these goals through a complete portfolio of IBM mobile software, services and industry expertise. Throughout 2013, IBM invested in core mobile enterprise capabilities such as IBM Worklight and IBM Rational, while rounding out its portfolio with strategic acquisitions such as Fiberlink, Trusteer, Xtify and The Now Factory. Integrated with 270 patents in wireless innovations and strengthened by thousands of mobile specialists from IBM Mobile Enterprise Services and IBM Interactive, the company has already helped more than 1,000 clients become more mobile enterprises. In addition to Social and Mobile, IBM's deep commitment to building a smarter planet can be seen in the ongoing efforts around Smarter Commerce and Smarter Cities. IBM's Smarter Commerce model can integrate and transform how companies manage and adapt their buy, market, sell and service processes to place the customer experience at the center of their business. IBM's Smarter Cities initiative helps federal, state and local governments to make better decisions, anticipate issues and coordinate resources across agencies more effectively and deliver citizen-centric services that can drive sustainable economic growth. Business Analytics Business Analytics is the category of software, systems and services that helps organizations take advantage of big data to make better and faster decisions and optimize processes. Big data includes both enterprise data, content and new data from both structured and unstructured sources: in previously unimaginable volumes (petabytes), with huge variety (from blogs, tweets, pictures, videos and text), at high velocity (machine-to-machine data from the Internet of things) and with decreasing veracity (from uncertain or incomplete sources). Big data and analytics are core to achieving the Smarter Planet strategy, helping data-savvy, insight-driven leaders to infuse intelligence into business decisions, processes and client interactions for faster actions and better outcomes. IBM can serve new buyers and make new market segments by bringing IT to industries and professions that are being transformed by data. The company has a unique set of offerings and deep expertise related to big data and analytics to help organizations: <U+0095>Acquire, grow and retain customers by improving customer interactions, building long-term, profitable relationships and realizing new value from customer sentiment.    <U+0095>Create new business models by tapping into information and insight to identify and explore strategic options for growth.     <U+0095>Transform financial management processes by improving enterprise agility, anticipating outcomes and driving business model innovation through a discipline of performance.    <U+0095>Better monitor, predict and manage risk to build trust and value amidst uncertainty, by having confidence in their data, risk exposures and ability to make risk-aware actionable decisions.    <U+0095>Optimize operations and counter fraud and other threats to reduce costs, increase efficiencies and productivity and improve public safety. 3 <U+0095>Improve IT economics by developing and enabling new value and agility at practically all levels of the organization and across lines of business while helping keep costs low and profitability high. The company's approach to big data and analytics helps organizations to succeed in their industries. IBM recommends organizations do three things to be successful. First, build a culture that infuses analytics everywhere. Second, be proactive about the privacy, security and governance of their data. Third, invest in the right platform and solutions to harness and analyze all of their data for new insights and outcomes. IBM is committed to continually innovating across the spectrum of big data and analytics capabilities, solutions, systems, research, services, deployment and skills. For example, in 2013, the company announced a breakthrough dynamic in-memory database technology called BLU Acceleration, predictive analytics for big data with IBM Analytic Catalyst, a PureData System for Hadoop that marries IBM's enterprise-class Hadoop distribution (InfoSphere BigInsights) with the simplicity of an appliance, InfoSphere Data Privacy for Hadoop that provides security and protection for sensitive big data, a Watson Engagement Advisor solution to help transform how brands and their customers interact and new academic partnerships to help prepare students for the expanding scope of careers in big data and analytics. Cloud Computing Cloud is a model for consuming and delivering business and IT services that can result in significant improvements in economies of scale and business agility and serve as a platform for business transformation. IBM has developed a portfolio of solutions, services and products that is helping thousands of clients adopt and leverage the transformative power of the cloud. IBM's breadth of capabilities gives the company a unique advantage to help clients think, build and tap into the cloud. IBM has the deep industry expertise to help clients transform business processes, industry optimized software solutions to support business processes, software development platforms to create new cloud-based business applications and standardized infrastructure to run these applications. IBM offers a full array of cloud delivery models, including private clouds, public clouds and a hybrid cloud that includes a mix of both. The company enables clients to build private, on-premises cloud-based environments that have the control, security and isolation required for their most mission-critical workloads. IBM also offers public cloud services, including the newly acquired SoftLayer platform that provides an infrastructure and ecosystem for middleware and applications. IBM's public cloud services can be simply provisioned as a self service, pay-as-you-go consumption model. IBM's software defined environments can provide a seamless integration across private and public cloud models, with interoperability, portability and scalability to help clients realize the full value of cloud. In the new era of computing, IBM's plans to enable nearly everything as a digital service. During 2013, IBM made several cloud-related strategic announcements, notably: <U+0095>IBM's Watson technology is being made available as a development platform in the cloud to enable a worldwide community of software application providers to build a new generation of apps infused with Watson's cognitive computing intelligence.    <U+0095>The acquisition of SoftLayer is enabling IBM to deliver industry-leading cloud solutions that offer the security, privacy and reliability of private clouds and the economy and speed of a public cloud.    <U+0095>New fast-start industry solutions, which are hosted on a private cloud using SoftLayer and offered as a managed service through Global Business Services, designed to meet growing demand from clients for rapid deployment, implementation and experimentation. 4 <U+0095>The acquisition of Xtify Inc., a leading provider of cloud-based mobile messaging tools that help organizations improve mobile sales, drive in-store traffic and engage customers with personalized offers.   <U+0095>An open-standards IBM cloud platform that provides capabilities to power the next generation of cloud and mobile application development and services. Growth Markets IBM continues to invest in growth markets where many countries and companies are embracing big data, mobile, social and cloud, often at faster rates than mature countries. In China, for example, 32 percent of consumers make their purchases online, compared to only 14 percent of consumers globally. In Africa, 18 percent of the continent's GDP is expected to be handled through mobile money transfers by 2015, while in Singapore, citizens spend 40 minutes on average each day on Facebook, compared to less than 25 minutes in the United States. IBM is helping clients in growth markets capitalize on these trends. For example: <U+0095>In Mexico, IBM is using its analytics tools to enable Banorte-Ixe Bank to know and service its more than 13 million customers as individuals.    <U+0095>Using IBM's Big Data technologies and predictive analytics, Da Nang's (Vietnam) traffic control center is better forecasting and preventing potential congestion and better coordinating city responses to issues like accidents and adverse weather.    <U+0095>In Saudi Arabia, the company developed a public health solution for disease management that was implemented with the Saudi Ministry of Health to help manage the risk of infectious and communicable diseases across the Kingdom.    <U+0095>Faced with rising fuel costs and a goal to reduce greenhouse emissions, Jet Airways, India's premier international airline, turned to IBM to more accurately calculate, track and report aircraft emissions and reduce fuel usage. IBM continues to build out its shared services facilities and talent to support its clients in growth markets. In China, the company has increased its Big Data software skills, and it will leverage an IBM Integrated Managed Services Centre to capture the significant growth in cloud. In November 2013, IBM opened its first Africa Research Lab in Kenya, IBM's 12th lab worldwide. The facility will conduct applied and exploratory research into the challenges Africa faces, and deliver commercially viable solutions to help improve the lives of people across the continent. Summary IBM's strategy is one of innovation, transformation and a constant evolution to higher value. The company has steadily remixed its portfolio and business model to reflect its strategic beliefs and pursue its growth initiatives. IBM has a balanced history of exiting commodity businesses that no longer fit the high-value model while investing in strategic acquisitions and organic capabilities. In 2013, the company invested $3.1 billion for acquisitions, $3.8 billion in net capital expenditures and $6.2 billion in research and development. The company has acquired more than 150 companies since 2000 to bolster its portfolio in areas like big data and analytics, cloud and systems of engagement. As the company looks ahead to 2014 and beyond, it will continuously transform itself to take advantage of new opportunities and pursue bold new plays in areas such as Watson solutions, new offerings for big data and analytics, the mobile enterprise and high-value cloud services. IBM will continue to deliver differentiated client value based on its sustained investments in research and development, its engaged employee base, industry expertise, global reach, and the breadth and depth of the company's technologies and capabilities. 5 BUSINESS MODEL The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping enterprise clients to become more innovative, efficient and competitive through the application of business insight and IT solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have superior long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients. The company's global capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide integrated solutions to the company's clients. The business model is resilient, adapting to the continuously changing market and economic environment. The company continues to divest certain businesses and strengthen its position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value areas. In addition, the company has transformed itself into a globally integrated enterprise which has improved overall productivity and is driving investment and expanding participation in the world's fastest growing markets. This business model, supported by the company's financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term. BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND CAPABILITIES The company's major operations consists of five business segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services, which the company collectively calls Global Services, Software, Systems and Technology and Global Financing. Global Services is a critical component of the company's strategy of providing IT infrastructure and business insight and solutions to clients. While solutions often include industry-leading IBM software and systems, other suppliers' products are also used if a client solution requires it. Approximately 60 percent of external Global Services segment revenue is annuity based, coming primarily from outsourcing and maintenance arrangements. The Global Services backlog provides a solid revenue base entering each year. Within Global Services, there are two reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services. Global Technology Services (GTS) primarily provides IT infrastructure and business process services, creating business value for clients through unique technology and IP integrated services within its global delivery model. By leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM's global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading-edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility, cost and outcomes. GTS Capabilities Strategic Outsourcing Services: delivers comprehensive IT outsourcing services dedicated to transforming clients' existing infrastructures to consistently deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The company integrates long-standing expertise in service management and technology with the ability to exploit the power of new technologies from IBM systems and software, such as cloud computing, analytics and virtualization, to deliver high performance, innovation and improved ability to achieve business objectives. Global Process Services: delivers a range of offerings consisting of standardized through transformational solutions including processing platforms and business process outsourcing. These services deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure. 6 Integrated Technology Services: delivers a portfolio of project-based and managed services that enable clients to transform and optimize their IT environments by driving efficiency, flexibility and productivity, while reducing costs. The standardized portfolio is built around key assets and patented software, and incorporates best practices and proven methodologies that ensure predictive quality of delivery, security and compliance. Cloud Services: delivers a comprehensive set of cloud services ranging from assisting clients with building their own private clouds, to building customized dedicated managed clouds, to allowing clients to leverage standardized cloud infrastructure services from the Soft-Layer and SmartCloud Enterprise+ offerings, to creating hybrid environments linking their private and public workloads together. This portfolio of cloud offerings spans across the GTS business lines. Technology Support Services: delivers a complete line of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the availability of clients' IT infrastructures. Global Business Services (GBS) has the mission to deliver predictable business outcomes to the company's clients across two primary business areas: Consulting and Application Management Services. These professional services deliver business value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry and business process expertise. The role of GBS is to drive initiatives that integrate IBM content and solutions and drive the progress of the company's four primary growth initiatives. As clients transform themselves in response to market trends like big data, social and mobile computing, GBS is aligning its expertise and capabilities to address two interdependent categories of opportunity: Front Office Digitization, which describes the markets forming around new models of engagement with all audiences; and the Globally Integrated Enterprise, which describes the mandate to integrate data and processes in support of the new front-office programs, and build far more flexible information applications. GBS Capabilities Consulting: delivering client value with solutions in Strategy and Transformation, Application Innovation Services, Enterprise Applications and Smarter Analytics. Consulting is also focused on bringing to market client solutions that drive Front Office Digitization in Smarter Commerce, Cloud, Mobile and Social Business. Application Management Services: application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as application testing and modernization, cloud application services, the company's highly differentiated globally integrated capability model, industry knowledge and the standardization and automation of application management. Software consists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables clients to integrate systems, processes and applications across a standard software platform to improve their business results, solve critical problems and gain competitive advantage within their industries. IBM middleware is designed on open standards, making it easier to integrate disparate business applications, developed by different methods and implemented at different times. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. Approximately two-thirds of external Software segment revenue is annuity based, coming from recurring license charges and ongoing post-contract support. The remaining one-third relates to one-time charge (OTC) arrangements in which clients pay one, upfront payment for a perpetual license. Typically, the sale of OTC software includes one year of post-contract support. Clients can also purchase ongoing post-contract support after the first year, which includes unspecified product upgrades and technical support. 7 Software Capabilities WebSphere Software: delivers capabilities that enable organizations to run high-performance business applications. With these applications, clients can integrate and manage business processes across their organizations with the flexibility and agility they need to respond to changing conditions. Built on services-oriented architecture (SOA), and open standards support for cloud, mobile and social interactions, the WebSphere platform enables enterprises to extend their reach and optimize interactions with their key constituents. Smarter Commerce software helps companies better manage and improve each step of their value chain and capitalize on opportunities for profitable growth, efficiency and increased customer loyalty. Information Management Software: enables clients to integrate, manage and analyze enormous amounts of data from a large variety of sources in order to gain competitive advantage and improve their business outcomes. With this approach, clients can extract real value out of their data and use it to make better business decisions. IBM's middleware and integrated solutions include advanced database management, information integration, data governance, enterprise content management, data warehousing, business analytics and intelligence, predictive analytics and big data analytics. Watson Solutions: included within Information Management Software, Watson is the first commercially available cognitive computing platform that has the ability to interact in natural language, processing vast amounts of big data, and learning from its interactions with people and computers. As an advisor, Watson is able to sift through and understand large amounts of data delivering insights with unprecedented speeds and accuracy. Tivoli Software: helps clients optimize the value they get from their infrastructures and technology assets through greater visibility, control and automation across their end-to-end business operations. These asset management solutions foster integrated service delivery for cloud and datacenter management, enterprise endpoint and mobile device management, asset and facilities management, and storage management. Tivoli includes security systems software that provides clients with a single security intelligence platform that enables them to better secure all aspects of their enterprise and prevent security breaches. Social Workforce Solutions: enables businesses to connect people and processes for more effective communication and increased productivity through collaboration, messaging and social networking software. By remaining at the forefront of collaboration tools, IBM's social business offerings help organizations reap real benefits associated with social networking, as well as create a more efficient and effective workforce. Rational Software: supports software development for both IT and complex embedded system solutions, with a portfolio of products and solutions supporting DevOps and Smarter Product Development, transforming the way lines of business, development and operations work together to deliver innovation via software. Mobile Software: spans middleware and offers customers true end-to-end mobile solutions across platform and application development, mobile security, and mobile device management. Leveraging powerful analytics and usage data, customers are provided with the ability to have more compelling interactions with their clients and workforce, increasing touchpoints and deepening relationships. The mobile offerings provide the ability to increase workforce productivity through enhanced collaboration, improved knowledge sharing and increased response speed. Systems and Technology (STG) provides clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and storage capabilities. Approximately half of Systems and Technology's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners; with the balance direct to end-user clients. In addition, Systems and Technology provides leading semiconductor technology, products and packaging solutions for IBM's own advanced technology needs and for external clients. 8 Systems and Technology Capabilities Systems: a range of general purpose and integrated systems designed and optimized for specific business, public and scientific computing needs. These systems<U+0097>System z, Power Systems and System x<U+0097>are typically the core technology in data centers that provide required infrastructure for business and institutions. Also, these systems form the foundation for IBM's integrated offerings, such as IBM PureSystems, IBM Smart Analytics, IBM PureData System for Analytics powered by Netezza, IBM SmartCloud Entry and IBM BladeCenter for Cloud. IBM servers use both IBM and non-IBM microprocessor technology and operating systems. All IBM servers run Linux, a key open-source operating system, and the company is expanding its Linux relevance further on the Power platform. Storage: data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization including data deduplication, availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of disk and tape storage systems, leveraging the breadth of IBM's software offerings, and includes Flash storage and solutions. Microelectronics: semiconductor design and manufacturing primarily for use in IBM systems and storage products as well as delivering semiconductors and related services to external clients. Global Financing facilitates clients' acquisition of IBM systems, software and services. Global Financing invests in financing assets, leverages with debt and manages the associated risks with the objective of generating consistently strong returns on equity. The primary focus on the company's offerings and clients mitigates many of the risks normally associated with a financing company. Global Financing has the benefit of both a deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services that are being financed. This combination allows Global Financing to effectively manage two of the major risks (credit and residual value) that are normally associated with financing. Global Financing Capabilities Client Financing: lease and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms generally between one and seven years. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Global Services' long-term client service contracts. Global Financing also factors a selected portion of the company's accounts receivable, primarily for cash management purposes. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions. Commercial Financing: short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT products. Remanufacturing and Remarketing: as equipment is returned at the conclusion of a lease transaction, these assets are refurbished and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally and internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Systems and Technology and Global Services. Systems and Technology may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients. IBM WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATIONS The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients: <U+0095>Sales and Distribution    <U+0095>Research, Development and Intellectual Property    <U+0095>Enterprise Transformation    <U+0095>Integrated Supply Chain 9 Sales and Distribution IBM has a significant global presence, operating in more than 175 countries, with an increasingly broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company's Sales and Distribution organization manages a strong global footprint, with dedicated country-based operating units focused on delivering client value. Within these units, client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to improve clients' business performance. These teams deliver value by understanding the clients' businesses and needs, and then bring together capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions. By combining global expertise with local experience, IBM's geographic structure enables dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align industry-skilled resources to serve clients' agendas. IBM extends capabilities to mid-market client segments by leveraging industry skills with marketing, Inside Sales and local Business Partner resources. The company continues to invest to capture the long-term opportunity in markets around the world that have market growth rates greater than the global average<U+0097>countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America. The company's major markets include the G7 countries of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (UK) plus Austria, the Bahamas, Belgium, the Caribbean region, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. The majority of IBM's revenue, excluding the company's original equipment manufacturer (OEM) technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six sectors: <U+0095>Financial Services: Banking, Financial Markets, Insurance    <U+0095>Public: Education, Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences    <U+0095>Industrial: Aerospace and Defense, Automotive, Chemical and Petroleum, Electronics     <U+0095>Distribution: Consumer Products, Retail, Travel and Transportation    <U+0095>Communications: Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment, Energy and Utilities     <U+0095>General Business: Cross-sector representation of intermediate-sized large enterprises as well as mid-market clients Research, Development and Intellectual Property IBM's research and development (R&D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests approximately $6 billion for R&D, focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and the company's business units through 12 global labs on near-term and mid-term innovations. It contributes many new technologies to IBM's portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research also explores the boundaries of science and technology<U+0097>from nanotechnology to future systems, big data analytics, secure clouds and to IBM Watson, a "cognitive" learning system. IBM Research also focuses on differentiating IBM's services businesses, providing new capabilities and solutions. It has the world's largest mathematics department of any public company, enabling IBM to create unique analytic solutions and actively engage with clients on their toughest challenges. In 2013, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company for the 21st consecutive year. IBM's 6,809 patents awarded in 2013 represent a diverse range of inventions poised to enable significant innovations that will position the company to compete and lead in strategic areas such as Watson, cloud computing and big data analytics. These inventions also will advance the new era of cognitive systems where machines will learn, reason and interact with people in more natural ways. It was the most U.S. patents ever awarded to one company in a single year. 10 The company continues to actively seek intellectual property protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its intellectual property leadership. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. While the company's various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Enterprise Transformation A key element of the company's strategy is becoming a Smarter Enterprise. The transformation to a Smarter Enterprise is built on the foundation of internal transformation undertaken in the recent past, where IBM standardized business processes, drove enterprisewide transformation governance, implemented a global operating model, instrumented data, and connected employees to drive collaboration across geographic and functional boundaries. The Smarter Enterprise is enabled through application of analytics, social, mobile and cloud tools, approaches and technologies. Analytics enable data-driven insights for faster, smarter decision making. Social tools encourage peer-to-peer interactions, and allow data to be shared within and outside IBM in a social way. Mobile technology allows workers to work seamlessly from anywhere. Cloud infrastructure and services enable application delivery. Collectively these enablers allow IBM to make decisions differently, create value differently and deliver value differently, thereby improving employee engagement and client experience and ultimately driving better business performance. The company primarily reinvests the benefits of its enterprise transformation initiatives in remixing its spending profile and resources to its higher growth, higher margin initiatives, in addition to improving profitability. Integrated Supply Chain IBM has an extensive integrated supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. In 2013, the company also managed approximately $20 billion in procurement spending for its clients through the Global Process Services organization. The supply, manufacturing and logistics and sales transaction support operations are integrated in one operating unit that has optimized inventories over time. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved sales force productivity and operational effectiveness and efficiency. Supply chain resiliency enables IBM to reduce its risk during marketplace changes. The company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain providing a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients. IBM leverages its supply chain expertise for clients through its supply chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end supply chain processes, from procurement to logistics. The company has expanded its use of analytics to measure, manage and fine tune its supply chain operations, which will help reshape its operations and create value for clients. COMPETITION The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, operating in more than 175 countries. The company participates in a highly competitive environment, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across its business segments, the company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide. 11 Across its business, the company's principal methods of competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to clients; and, service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and integrate. The company has been executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through organic investments and strategic acquisitions. As the company executes its strategy, it enters new markets, such as smarter planet and business analytics, which exposes the company to new competitors. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments. A summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below: Global Services: The services segments, GTS and GBS, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. GTS competes in strategic outsourcing, business process outsourcing, cloud services, and a wide range of technical and IT support services. GBS competes in consulting, system integration and application management services. The principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, industry knowledge and experience, value and speed, price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in the services business include its global reach and scale, global delivery model, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise, services assets, an ability to deliver integrated solutions that can address clients' needs in any environment and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. The company competes with broad based competitors including: Accenture, Amazon.com, Inc., Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu and Hewlett-Packard Company (HP); India-based service providers; the consulting practices of public accounting firms; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas. Software: The enterprise management software market is highly competitive, and increasingly technology companies are looking to implement software solutions that will improve business outcomes for their clients. The key competitive factors in this segment include: functionality, ease-of-use, scalability, open standards, total cost-of-ownership and business value. IBM's leadership in each of these areas, and the ability to deliver solutions that drive business results, provides it with competitive advantages. The company's software business includes middleware, solutions offerings and operating systems. The middleware portfolio is the broadest in the industry and covers both mainframe and distributed computing environments. The middleware portfolio also underpins IBM's solutions business and enhances the business value the company brings to clients. The solutions portfolio provides comprehensive business and industry- specific offerings to new types of IT decision makers, such as chief marketing and procurement officers, chief information security officers and chief financial officers. The depth and breadth of the software offerings, coupled with the company's global sales and technical support infrastructure, differentiate the software business from its competitors. The company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio also contribute to this segment's leadership. The company's principal competitors in this segment include CA, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation (Oracle) and SAP. The company also competes with smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets worldwide. Systems and Technology: The enterprise server and storage market is highly competitive and is characterized by ongoing technology innovation, with competition focused on value, function and reliability, and new entrants 12 leveraging technology to compete against traditional offerings. The company's principal competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), Dell, Inc., EMC Corporation, HP and Oracle. The company's investment in virtualization, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and the ability of its systems platforms to leverage the entire system, from the company's custom semiconductors through the software stack to increase efficiency and lower cost, provide the company with competitive advantages in this segment. In addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's leadership. Global Financing: Global Financing provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. Global Financing's access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive advantage for the company. The key competitive factors include price, IT product expertise, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business, global capabilities and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of companies in providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of companies such as Cisco and HP and non-captive financing entities of companies such as General Electric Company and banks or financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market. Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are based on the company's current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements by their nature address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on pages 14 through 19 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference. The following information is included in IBM's 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference: Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or services<U+0097>pages 141 to 146. Financial information by geographic areas<U+0097>page 145. Amount spent during each of the last three years on R&D activities<U+0097>page 123. Financial information regarding environmental activities<U+0097>pages 114 and 115. 13 The number of persons employed by the registrant<U+0097>page 72. The management discussion overview<U+0097>pages 26 to 28. Available information<U+0097>page 151. Also refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form. Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 25, 2014): Age    Officer since     Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer*     56     2005    Rodney C. Adkins, Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy     55     2007    Colleen F. Arnold, Senior Vice President, Sales and Distribution     56     2010    Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, Global Technology Services     55     2010    Bruno V. Di Leo Allen, Senior Vice President, Sales and Distribution     56     2012    Diane J. Gherson, Senior Vice President, Human Resources     56     2013    Jon C. Iwata, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications     51     2002    James J. Kavanaugh, Vice President and Controller     47     2008    John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President and Director, Research     60     2000    Robert J. LeBlanc, Senior Vice President, Software and Cloud Solutions Group     55     2010    Steven A. Mills, Senior Vice President and Group Executive, Software and Systems     62     2000    Robert J. Picciano, Senior Vice President, Information and Analytics Group     49     2014    Michael D. Rhodin, Senior Vice President, IBM Watson Group     53     2010    Thomas W. Rosamilia, Senior Vice President, Systems and Technology Group and IBM Integrated Supply Chain     53     2013    Linda S. Sanford, Senior Vice President, Enterprise Transformation     61     2000    Martin J. Schroeter, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Finance and Enterprise Transformation     49     2014    Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Senior Vice President, GTS Solutions     56     2004    Bridget A. van Kralingen, Senior Vice President, Global Business Services     50     2012    Robert C. Weber, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel     63     2006 *Member of the Board of Directors. All executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders as provided in the By-laws. Each executive officer named above has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.