Item 1. Business: International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 85 years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today: The company creates business value for clients and solves business problems through integrated solutions that leverage information technology and deep knowledge of business processes. IBM solutions typically create value by reducing a client's operational costs or by enabling new capabilities that generate revenue. These solutions draw from an industry leading portfolio of consulting, delivery and implementation services, enterprise software, systems and financing. STRATEGY Despite the volatility of the information technology (IT) industry over the past decade, IBM has consistently delivered strong performance, with a steady track record of sustained earnings per share growth and cash generation. The company has shifted its business mix, exiting certain segments while increasing its presence in higher-value areas such as services, software and integrated solutions. As part of this shift, the company has acquired more than 140 companies since 2000, complementing and scaling its portfolio of products and offerings. IBM's strategy of delivering high value solutions to enterprise clients has yielded consistent business results. Working with enterprise clients across the full spectrum of their business and technical opportunities, IBM delivers leadership innovation in technology, high value solutions and insights that improve client and industry outcomes. A highly engaged, global workforce with deep technical and business skills, teamed with an unmatched ecosystem of partners provides a world-class client experience. These priorities reflect a broad shift in client spending toward innovation and efficiency, as companies seek higher levels of business value from their IT investments. IBM has been able to deliver this enhanced client value thanks to its industry expertise, understanding of clients' businesses, sustained investment in core and applied research and development (R&D), global reach and the breadth and depth of the company's capabilities. New types of solutions, new market opportunities and new decision makers are emerging as clients look to make use of technology to generate innovation and competitive advantage. These opportunities are driven by a new era of computing that is enabled by analytics, cloud computing, Big Data, mobility, social computing and supported by enterprise grade security solutions. The company's strategy is to establish leadership in this new era of smarter computing<U+0097>computing that is designed for Big Data, built on software-defined environments and open<U+0097>in order to enhance the value we deliver, create new markets and engage new clients. To capture the opportunities arising from these market trends, IBM is focused on four key growth initiatives: Smarter Planet, Growth Markets, Business Analytics and Optimization and Cloud Computing. Each initiative represents a significant growth opportunity with attractive profit margins for IBM. Smarter Planet Smarter Planet is IBM's vision of a technology-enabled world that is more instrumented, interconnected and intelligent than ever before, enabling people and organizations to tackle significant 1 business and societal challenges. At the heart of this vision is the opportunity for meaningful innovation<U+0097>exploring and extending the boundaries of businesses, industries and communities. It's about helping the company's clients become better at what they do for their clients. IBM's strategy is to accelerate progress toward a "smarter planet" by equipping clients with the advanced, integrated capabilities they need to thrive in this exciting new world that is unfolding before us<U+0097>capabilities such as analytics for business and physical systems, business process management, social business, mobile computing and cloud computing. IBM has continued to deepen its commitment to understanding and delivering on the promise of Smarter Planet for both line of business and IT executives across a broad range of industries. An industry-based approach is central to the strategy, since every industry confronts a distinct set of challenges and opportunities in today's constantly transforming world. Whether "smarter" means helping a hospital group to deliver improved healthcare, a local government to ease traffic congestion, or a retail chain to execute a successful cross-channel campaign, IBM is aggressively developing and investing in a portfolio of industry solutions that helps these clients achieve their goals. Three initiatives that drive significant value illustrate IBM's deep commitment to building a smarter planet: Smarter Commerce, Smarter Cities and Social Business. IBM's Smarter Commerce model integrates and transforms how companies manage and adapt their buy, market, sell and service processes, placing the customer squarely at the center of their business. IBM's Smarter Cities initiative enables federal, state and local governments to make smarter decisions, anticipate issues and coordinate resources more effectively, while delivering citizen-centric services that underpin sustainable economic growth. IBM's Social Business initiative helps clients integrate social technologies and practices into their front-end processes to more effectively create and share knowledge to accelerate innovation, improve customer service, and build a smarter workforce. Each of these initiatives is powered by market-leading IBM innovations and software, developed both by IBM and through acquisitions. Growth Markets The company has benefited from its investments over the past several years in the growth markets. The focus now is on geographic expansion of IBM's presence; on selected industries of the highest impact and opportunity; on countries' build-outs of infrastructure aligned with their national agendas; and, on creating markets and new business models to serve the different requirements that exist in these emerging countries. The company's effort in developing new growth markets within the African continent is a good example of this focus. Many of these initiatives are leading-edge, both in technologies and business models, and are delivering both increased revenue and margin expansion. In order to support this growth, IBM continues to invest significantly in these markets to expand capacity, to develop talent and to deepen its R&D capabilities on the ground. At the same time, IBM continues to leverage talent across the growth markets under its globally integrated enterprise model to the benefit of both its clients and the company worldwide. Business Analytics and Optimization Business Analytics and Optimization (BAO) is the category of software, systems and services that help organizations take advantage of all the data available to them for better and faster decision making and process optimization. This includes data that is being labeled "Big Data," which is data of extreme volume, data being generated at a high velocity, and newer varieties of data like blogs, tweets, pictures, videos, unstructured text created by the explosion of social media websites and the instrumentation of nearly everything. BAO is core to achieving a smarter planet, helping leaders of this new information-centric and insight-driven world infuse intelligence into their business processes. 2 Smarter Analytics is IBM's unique offering for the BAO category. With Smarter Analytics and the company's deep expertise, IBM can help organizations: 1) grow, retain and satisfy customers through deep insight on individual customers and similar segments; 2) increase operational efficiency through, for example, supply chain optimization, predictive maintenance, fraud reduction and optimization of sales incentives and compensation; 3) transform their financial processes such as planning, budgeting, forecasting, financial consolidation, regulatory filing and financial reporting; and 4) better manage risk and regulatory compliance. The company's approach to analytics is to ensure clients have complete end-to-end solutions across industries and functional focus areas like finance, sales, marketing, operations and risk. These solutions are designed to help organizations: 1) align around all their data<U+0097>both traditional and big data<U+0097>and establish a strong information foundation; 2) apply analytics to their data so they can anticipate and shape business outcomes, identify patterns and gain insights into future performance; 3) enable workers on the front lines who collectively make thousands and even millions of decisions daily with insight that is immediately actionable so they can make the best possible decision<U+0097>decisions like what claims to fast track in an insurance call center, or what offer is the best for each individual customer who calls a call center; and 4) create a culture that takes action on analytics and that truly transforms. IBM is committed to continually innovating across the spectrum of analytic capabilities, systems, research, services, deployment and skills. For example, in 2012, the game changing innovations in Watson were applied to Healthcare and Financial Services, analytic research like the ground-breaking work being done on temporal causal modeling and visualization, and investments in analytic skills and deployment ability in our new Analytics research centers in Columbus, Ohio and Halifax, Nova Scotia. Cloud Computing Cloud is a model for consuming and delivering business and IT services. It can deliver significant economies, enable new levels of speed, flexibility and agility and even serve as a transformative platform for business innovation. From a business perspective, cloud computing is reshaping industry ecosystems, invigorating product innovation and enabling new business models that leverage new sources of competitive differentiation. From an IT perspective, cloud offers improved access to and utilization of information technology through use of highly efficient virtualization and management technology, consumer-style user interfaces and ubiquitous connectivity, including via mobile technologies. IBM has already helped thousands of its clients adopt and leverage cloud computing through its broad portfolio of IBM SmartCloud products, solutions and services. Organizations moving beyond initial exploration of cloud computing seek solutions that align with their specific needs. IBM's breadth of cloud capabilities gives it a unique ability to help clients exploit the advantages of cloud. IBM has cloud solutions that span infrastructure, platform, applications and business process services all geared to enable clients to drive significant business value through the rapid adoption and exploitation of new cloud capabilities. IBM's expert consulting, breakthrough technologies and a portfolio of cloud-based services are squarely focused on the requirements of the enterprise. The company offers a full array of cloud delivery models, including private clouds, public clouds and a hybrid of both. IBM helps build out private, on-premises cloud-based environments that provide the control, security and isolation that clients require for their most mission-critical workloads. IBM public clouds provide infrastructure, platforms and applications as rapidly provisioned and highly-scalable cloud services on a pay-as-you-go basis. Hybrid clouds provide seamless integration across private and public cloud models, ensuring the interoperability, portability and scalability that clients need to realize the full value of cloud. 3 BUSINESS MODEL The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping clients to become more innovative, efficient and competitive through the application of business insight and IT solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have superior long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients. The company's global capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide integrated solutions to the company's clients. The business model is resilient, adapting to the continuously changing market and economic environment. The company continues to divest certain businesses and strengthen its position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher- value segments like business analytics, Smarter Planet and cloud computing. In addition, the company has transformed itself into a globally integrated enterprise which has improved overall productivity and is driving investment and expanding participation in the world's fastest growing markets. This business model, supported by the company's financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term. BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND CAPABILITIES The company's major operations consists of five business segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services, which the company collectively calls Global Services, and Software, Systems and Technology and Global Financing. Global Services is a critical component of the company's strategy of providing IT infrastructure and business insight and solutions to clients. While solutions often include industry-leading IBM software and systems, other suppliers' products are also used if a client solution requires it. Approximately 60 percent of external Global Services segment revenue is annuity based, coming primarily from outsourcing and maintenance arrangements. The Global Services backlog provides a solid revenue base entering each year. Within Global Services, there are two reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services. Global Technology Services (GTS) primarily provides IT infrastructure and business process services, creating business value for clients through unique technology and IP, integrated services within its global delivery model. By leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM's global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading-edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility, cost and outcomes. GTS Capabilities Strategic Outsourcing Services: delivers comprehensive IT outsourcing services dedicated to transforming clients' existing infrastructures to consistently deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The company integrates longstanding expertise in service management and technology with the ability to exploit the power of new technologies from IBM systems and software, such as cloud computing, analytics and virtualization, to deliver high performance, innovation and improved ability to achieve business objectives. Global Process Services: delivers a range of offerings consisting of standardized through transformational solutions including processing platforms and business process outsourcing. These services deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure. 4 Integrated Technology Services: delivers a portfolio of project- based and managed services that enable clients to transform and optimize their IT environments by driving efficiency, flexibility and productivity, while reducing costs. The standardized portfolio is built around key assets and patented software, and incorporates best practices and proven methodologies that ensure predictive quality of delivery, security and compliance. Technology Support Services: delivers a complete line of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the availability of clients' IT infrastructures. Global Business Services (GBS) has the mission to deliver predictable business outcomes to the company's clients across two primary business areas: Consulting and Application Management Services. These professional services deliver business value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry and business process expertise. The role of GBS is to drive initiatives that integrate IBM content and solutions and drive the progress of the company's four primary growth initiatives. As clients transform themselves in response to market trends like Big Data, social and mobile computing, GBS is aligning its expertise and capabilities to address two interdependent categories of opportunity: Front Office Digitization, which describes the markets forming around new models of engagement with all audiences; and the Globally Integrated Enterprise, which describes the mandate to integrate data and processes in support of the new front-office programs, and build far more flexible information applications. GBS Capabilities Consulting: delivering client value with solutions in Strategy and Transformation, Application Innovation Services, Enterprise Applications and Smarter Analytics. Consulting is also focused on bringing to market client solutions that drive Front Office Digitization in Smarter Commerce, Cloud, Mobile and Social Business. Application Management Services: application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as application testing and modernization, cloud application services, the company's highly differentiated globally integrated capability model, industry knowledge and the standardization and automation of application management. Software consists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables clients to integrate systems, processes and applications across a standard software platform to improve their business results, solve critical problems and gain competitive advantage within their industries. IBM middleware is designed on open standards, making it easier to integrate disparate business applications, developed by different methods and implemented at different times. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. Approximately two-thirds of external Software segment revenue is annuity based, coming from recurring license charges and ongoing post-contract support. The remaining one-third relates to one-time charge (OTC) arrangements in which clients pay one, up-front payment for a perpetual license. Typically, the sale of OTC software includes one year of post-contract support. Clients can also purchase ongoing post-contract support after the first year, which includes unspecified product upgrades and technical support. Software Capabilities WebSphere Software: delivers capabilities that enable organizations to run high-performance business applications. With these applications, clients can integrate and manage business processes across their organizations with the flexibility and agility they need to respond to changing conditions. Built on services-oriented architecture (SOA), and open standards support for cloud, mobile and social interactions, the WebSphere platform enables enterprises to extend their reach and optimize interactions with their key constituents. Smarter Commerce software helps companies better manage 5 and improve each step of their value chain and capitalize on opportunities for profitable growth, efficiency and increased customer loyalty. Information Management Software: enables clients to integrate, manage and analyze enormous amounts of data from a large variety of sources in order to gain competitive advantage and improve their business outcomes. With this approach, clients can extract real value out of their data and use it to make better business decisions. IBM's middleware and integrated solutions include advanced database management, information integration, data governance, enterprise content management, data warehousing, business analytics and intelligence, predictive analytics and big data analytics. Tivoli Software: helps clients optimize the value they get from their infrastructures and technology assets through greater visibility, control and automation across their end-to-end business operations. These asset management solutions foster integrated service delivery for cloud and datacenter management, enterprise endpoint and mobile device management, asset and facilities management, and storage management. Tivoli includes security systems software that provides clients with a single security intelligence platform that enables them to better secure all aspects of their enterprise and prevent security breaches. Lotus Software: enables businesses to connect people and processes for more effective communication and increased productivity through collaboration, messaging and social networking software. By remaining at the forefront of collaboration tools, IBM's social business offerings help organizations reap real benefits associated with social networking, as well as create a more efficient and effective workforce. Rational Software: supports software development for both IT, as well as complex and embedded system solutions, with a suite of Collaborative Lifecycle Management products. Jazz, Rational's technology platform, transforms the way people work together to build software, making software delivery more integrated and collaborative, while optimizing for successful business outcomes. Operating Systems: software that manages the fundamental processes that make computers run. Systems and Technology (STG) provides clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and storage capabilities. Approximately half of Systems and Technology's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners; with the balance direct to end-user clients. In addition, Systems and Technology provides leading semiconductor technology, products and packaging solutions for IBM's own advanced technology needs and for external clients. Systems and Technology Capabilities Systems: a range of general purpose and integrated systems designed and optimized for specific business, public and scientific computing needs. These systems<U+0097>System z, Power Systems and System x<U+0097>are typically the core technology in data centers that provide required infrastructure for business and institutions. Also, these systems form the foundation for IBM's integrated offerings, such as IBM PureSystems, IBM Smart Analytics, IBM Netezza, IBM SmartCloud Entry and IBM BladeCenter for Cloud. IBM servers use both IBM and non-IBM microprocessor technology and operating systems. All IBM servers run Linux, a key open-source operating system. Storage: data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization including data deduplication, availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of disk and tape storage systems and software. Microelectronics: semiconductor design and manufacturing primarily for use in IBM systems and storage products as well as delivering semiconductors and related services to external clients. 6 Global Financing facilitates clients' acquisition of IBM systems, software and services. Global Financing invests in financing assets, leverages with debt and manages the associated risks with the objective of generating consistently strong returns on equity. The primary focus on the company's offerings and clients mitigates many of the risks normally associated with a financing company. Global Financing has the benefit of both a deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services that are being financed. This combination allows Global Financing to effectively manage two of the major risks (credit and residual value) that are normally associated with financing. Global Financing Capabilities Client Financing: lease and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms generally between one and seven years. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Global Services' long-term client service contracts. Global Financing also factors a selected portion of the company's accounts receivable, primarily for cash management purposes. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions. Commercial Financing: short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT products. Remanufacturing and Remarketing: as equipment is returned at the conclusion of a lease transaction, these assets are refurbished and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally and internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Systems and Technology and Global Services. Systems and Technology may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients. IBM WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATIONS The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients: <U+0095>Sales and Distribution    <U+0095>Research, Development and Intellectual Property    <U+0095>Enterprise Transformation    <U+0095>Integrated Supply Chain Sales and Distribution IBM has a significant global presence, operating in more than 170 countries, with an increasingly broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company's Sales and Distribution organization manages a strong global footprint, with dedicated country-based operating units focused on delivering client value. Within these units, client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to improve clients' business performance. These teams deliver value by understanding the clients' businesses and needs, and then bring together capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions. By combining global expertise with local experience, IBM's geographic structure enables dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align industry-skilled resources to serve clients' agendas. IBM extends capabilities to mid-market client segments by leveraging industry skills with marketing, Inside Sales and local Business Partner resources. Through its growth markets organization, the company continues to increase its focus on the emerging markets around the world that have market growth rates greater than the global 7 average<U+0097>countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America. The company's major markets include the G7 countries of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (UK) plus Austria, the Bahamas, Belgium, the Caribbean region, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. The majority of IBM's revenue, excluding the company's original equipment manufacturer (OEM) technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six sectors: <U+0095>Financial Services: Banking, Financial Markets, Insurance    <U+0095>Public: Education, Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences    <U+0095>Industrial: Aerospace and Defense, Automotive, Chemical and Petroleum, Electronics     <U+0095>Distribution: Consumer Products, Retail, Travel and Transportation    <U+0095>Communications: Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment, Energy and Utilities     <U+0095>General Business: Cross-sector representation of intermediate- sized large enterprises as well as midmarket clients (less than 1,000 employees) Research, Development and Intellectual Property IBM's R&D operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests over $6 billion for R&D, focusing on high- growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and the company's business units through 12 global labs on near-term and mid-term innovations. It contributes many new technologies to IBM's portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research also explores the boundaries of science and technology<U+0097>from nanotechnology, to future systems, to big data analytics, to secure clouds, to IBM Watson, a "cognitive" learning system that applied advanced analytics to defeat the all-time champions on the television quiz show, Jeopardy!. The Watson system has been introduced to the market for advanced healthcare applications and is being further developed and extended within healthcare and in other industries. IBM Research also focuses on differentiating IBM's services businesses providing new capabilities and solutions. It has the world's largest mathematics department of any public company, enabling IBM to create unique analytic solutions and actively engage with clients on their toughest challenges. In 2012, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company for the 20th consecutive year. IBM's 6,478 patents in 2012 included inventions that will enable fundamental advancements in analytics, big data, cybersecurity, cloud, mobile, social networking and software defined environments, as well as industry solutions for retail, banking, healthcare, and transportation. It was the most U.S. patents ever awarded to one company in a single year. The company continues to actively seek intellectual property protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its intellectual property leadership. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in either/both IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. While the company's various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. 8 Enterprise Transformation A key element of the company's strategy has been focused on becoming the premier globally integrated enterprise. The company has implemented a consistent set of processes and standards worldwide to reduce inefficiencies and improve collaboration. With its processes fully standardized, the company implemented a new operating model with work shared in global resource centers of excellence located where it made the most business sense. The company has shifted resources toward building client relationships and employee skills, while positioning the company for new market opportunities. During this transformation, IBM pioneered this new operating model, changing from a classic "multinational," with smaller versions of the parent company replicated in countries around the world, to a global model with one set of processes, shared services and broadly distributed decision making. The company has now embarked on the next generation of its transformation in which new capabilities and technologies like business analytics and cloud computing will drive performance. The proven principles of the globally integrated enterprise will be applied to all of the company's spending to continue to drive additional productivity benefits in shared services, end-to-end process transformation and integrated operations. The company primarily reinvests the benefits of its enterprise transformation initiatives in remixing its spending profile and resources to the higher growth, higher margin initiatives such as business analytics, Smarter Planet and cloud computing, in addition to improving profitability. Integrated Supply Chain IBM spends approximately $35 billion annually through its supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. In addition, in 2012, the company managed approximately $20 billion in procurement spending for its clients through the Global Process Services organization. The supply, manufacturing, and logistics and customer fulfillment operations are integrated in one operating unit that has optimized inventories over time. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved sales force productivity and operational effectiveness and efficiency. Continuous improvements to supply chain resiliency against marketplace changes and risks have been particularly valuable in maintaining continuity during natural disasters and other disruptive events. The company's continuing efforts to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain provides a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients. IBM leverages its supply chain expertise for clients through its supply chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end supply chain processes, from procurement to logistics. Increasingly the company is using analytics to measure, manage and fine tune its supply chain operations, which will help to reshape its operations and create value for clients. The goal is to continue to increase the use of analytics in the five major areas of supply chain: 1) Supply Chain Visibility, 2) Risk Management, 3) Customer Insight, 4) Cost Containment, and 5) Global Supply Chain and Sustainability. COMPETITION The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, operating in more than 170 countries. The company participates in a highly competitive environment, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across its business segments, the company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide. Across its business, the company's principal methods of competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to clients; and, service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and integrate. The company has 9 been executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through organic investments and strategic acquisitions. As the company executes its strategy, it enters new markets, such as smarter planet and business analytics, which exposes the company to new competitors. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments. A summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below: Global Services: The services segments, GTS and GBS, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. GTS competes in strategic outsourcing, business process outsourcing, cloud services, and a wide range of technical and IT support services. GBS competes in consulting, system integration and application management services. The principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, industry knowledge and experience, value and speed, price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in the services business include its global reach and scale, global delivery model, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise, services assets, an ability to deliver integrated solutions that can address clients' needs in any environment and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. The company competes with broad based competitors including: Accenture, Amazon.com, Inc., Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu and Hewlett-Packard Company (HP); India-based service providers; the consulting practices of public accounting firms; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas. Software: The enterprise management software market is highly competitive and, increasingly, technology companies are looking to implement software solutions that will improve business outcomes for their clients. The key competitive factors in this segment include: functionality, ease-of-use, scalability, open standards, total cost-of-ownership and business value. IBM's leadership in each of these areas, and the ability to deliver solutions that drive business results, provides it with competitive advantages. The company's software business includes middleware, solutions offerings and operating systems. The middleware portfolio is the broadest in the industry and covers both mainframe and distributed computing environments. The middleware portfolio also underpins IBM's solutions business and enhances the business value the company brings to clients. The solutions portfolio provides comprehensive business and industry- specific offerings to new types of IT decision makers, such as chief marketing and procurement officers, chief information security officers, and chief financial officers. The depth and breadth of the company's software offerings, coupled with its global sales and technical support infrastructure, differentiate the software business from its competitors. The company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio also contribute to this segment's leadership. The company's principal competitors in this segment include CA, Inc., Microsoft Corporation and Oracle Corporation (Oracle). The company also competes with smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets worldwide. Systems and Technology: The enterprise server and storage market is highly competitive and is characterized by ongoing technology innovation, with competition focused on value, function and reliability, and new entrants leveraging technology to compete against traditional offerings. The company's principal competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), Dell, Inc., EMC Corporation, HP and Oracle. The company's leadership in virtualization, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and the ability of its systems platforms to leverage the entire system, from the company's custom 10 semiconductors through the software stack to increase efficiency and lower cost, provide the company with competitive advantages in this segment. In addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's leadership. Global Financing: Global Financing provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. The economic crisis of 2008 and 2009 drove an increase in credit spreads and a tightening supply of credit which have subsequently eased. However, going forward credit spreads may increase and the supply of credit may tighten based on worldwide economic conditions. Global Financing's access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive advantage for the company. The key competitive factors include price, IT product expertise, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business, global capabilities and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of companies in providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of companies such as Cisco and HP and non-captive financing entities of companies such as General Electric Company and banks or financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market. Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are based on the company's current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements by their nature address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on pages 12 to 17 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference. The following information is included in IBM's 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference: Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or services<U+0097>pages 134 to 138. Financial information by geographic areas<U+0097>page 138. Amount spent during each of the last three years on R&D activities<U+0097>page 115. Financial information regarding environmental activities<U+0097>pages 106 and 107. The number of persons employed by the registrant<U+0097>page 63. The management discussion overview<U+0097>pages 18 to 21. Available information<U+0097>page 143. Also refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form. 11 Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 26, 2013): Age    Officer since     Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer*     55     2005    Rodney C. Adkins, Senior Vice President, Systems and Technology Group     54     2007    Colleen F. Arnold, Senior Vice President, Application Management Services     55     2010    James P. Bramante, Senior Vice President, Growth Markets     54     2012    Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, Global Technology Services     54     2010    Michael E. Daniels, Senior Vice President**     58     2005    Bruno V. Di Leo Allen, Senior Vice President, Sales and Distribution     55     2012    Jon C. Iwata, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications     50     2002    James J. Kavanaugh, Vice President and Controller     46     2008    John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President and Director, Research     59     2000    Robert J. LeBlanc, Senior Vice President, Middleware Software Group     54     2010    Mark Loughridge, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Finance and Enterprise Transformation     59     1998    J. Randall MacDonald, Senior Vice President, Human Resources     64     2000    Steven A. Mills, Senior Vice President and Group Executive, Software and Systems     61     2000    Michael D. Rhodin, Senior Vice President, Software Solutions Group     52     2010    Linda S. Sanford, Senior Vice President, Enterprise Transformation     60     2000    Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Senior Vice President, GTS Services Delivery     55     2004    Bridget A. van Kralingen, Senior Vice President, Global Business Services     49     2012    Robert C. Weber, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel     62     2006 *Member of the Board of Directors.   **Mr. Daniels will retire on March 31, 2013, after a 36-year career with the company. All executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders as provided in the By-laws. Each executive officer named above has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.