Item 1. Business: International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 90 years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today: The company creates value for clients through integrated solutions and products that leverage: data, information technology, deep expertise in industries and business processes, and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. IBM solutions typically create value by enabling new capabilities for clients that transform their businesses and help them engage with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting and IT implementation services, cloud and cognitive offerings, and enterprise systems and software; all bolstered by one of the world's leading research organizations. Strategy In a time of unprecedented technological change, IBM's strategy remains one of innovation and a constant drive to deliver higher value for our clients. Key tenets of the company's strategy include: 1.    Our strategic imperatives:    Data, cloud and engagement are fundamentally transforming the IT industry, the company and our clients' businesses. The tremendous growth of data is redefining today's competitive advantage. With data as the world's new "natural resource," it is fundamentally transforming industries and professions. Yet as with all natural resources, only by refining data into actionable insights through analytics does it become valuable to the customer's business. Cloud computing<U+0097>the delivery of IT and business processes as digital services<U+0097>offers opportunities for enterprises to reinvent not just their operations, but their entire business model and approaches to innovation. Engagement, including mobile and social technologies, is profoundly changing how people interact and the way work gets done. Finally, these transformations are all supported and protected by high levels of security to ensure privacy and integrity of action. These three imperatives<U+0097>data, cloud and engagement<U+0097>are the foundation of IBM's strategy today and its vision for the future. 2.    Our unique strength:    Our ability to connect new technologies with the systems currently running today's enterprises is a key value-added service and market differentiator for IBM. Clients today want more than just adopting new technologies<U+0097>they want IBM to fuse new solutions with their existing systems. This "bringing together" is what the company calls Hybrid Cloud, and IBM is uniquely able to bring this value to its clients. 3.    Our migration to higher levels of business value:    Clients look to IBM to solve their business challenges and opportunities rather than just providing technology. Our evolution over decades<U+0097>from hardware to software and services, and increasingly to full-fledged business solutions<U+0097>reflects this critical shift in meeting client needs. IBM brings together the full breadth of its integrated offerings and industry expertise to be essential to its clients and deliver higher value. 1.     Our Strategic Imperatives Data: transforming industries and professions Fueled by the proliferation of mobile devices, social media and the infusion of technology into virtually all aspects of business, data is the world's new natural resource. Without powerful analytics, however, it is just data. 1 Across all industries, enterprises are working hard to harvest new insights from the explosion of available data<U+0097>the new basis for today's competitive advantage. The advantage for enterprises increases as they apply more sophisticated approaches to refining their data, turning them into insights that are actionable and add value. The advent of cognitive computing, which mirrors the same cognitive process that people use every day to understand the world around them, is profoundly redefining the relationship between humans and information. Cognitive systems learn, navigate the language and protocols of expert communities, and communicate in natural language. IBM has invested more than $26 billion, including over $17 billion on more than 30 acquisitions, to build its capabilities in big data and analytics. One third of IBM Research's spending is focused on data, analytics and cognitive computing. In 2014, IBM reported nearly $17 billion in business analytics revenue, and the company established the Watson Group to develop and commercialize cognitive computing innovations. The company has committed a $1 billion investment to Watson, including $100 million dedicated to venture investments to support start-ups building cognitive apps through the Watson Developer Zone on Bluemix. The company is also making Watson more widely available through the Watson Ecosystem, which has grown to more than 160 partners with nearly 4,000 future partners seeking to build a new generation of cognitive apps. IBM also launched Watson Analytics, a breakthrough natural language-based cognitive service that provides instant access to powerful predictive and visual analytic tools for businesses. Through Watson Analytics, IBM is extending analytics to the end user, not just the data scientist. IBM's goal is to give every business professional access to advanced cognitive-powered predictive analytics, coupled with new forms of data. In addition in 2014, the company made bold moves by establishing key alliances. In the data space, the company announced a ground-breaking partnership with Twitter to incorporate Twitter's massive data streams into IBM's cloud-based analytics, customer engagement platforms and consulting services. Enterprises will now be able to understand customer sentiment more deeply and anticipate sudden shifts in moods and markets by tapping into the Twitter data in powerful new ways. This capability will also allow clients to integrate Twitter data into their own cloud services and mobile apps. Cloud: reinventing IT Cloud is at the heart of the digital revolution. No enterprise is untouched by this revolution and the shifts are occurring rapidly. Enterprises are benefitting from cloud by using it to transform their IT and business processes into digital services. Much has been written about how cloud enables the sharing of infrastructure<U+0097>this is true. However the real promise of cloud is much more profound. By forcing greater levels of standards up and down the technology value chain, new products and services, and even entire business models, are able to be created in weeks rather than months or years. Cloud is a catalyst for innovation. IBM has invested more than $8 billion to acquire 18 companies related to cloud, and is investing more than $1 billion to expand its global footprint to 40 datacenters worldwide. IBM now has more than 120 software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings, and IBM Cloud supports 24 of the top 25 Fortune 500 companies, driving $7 billion of revenue for cloud-based solutions in 2014. <U+0095> SoftLayer is the foundation for IBM's expansive infrastructure-as-a-service portfolio. It offers bare metal, private cloud and virtual server instances, which means it can cover many different workloads with unprecedented performance. SoftLayer offers a built-in private network which can handle huge capacity and gives users the ability to isolate public/private networks with controls for access and location of data. 2 <U+0095> Bluemix is IBM's platform-as-a-service, built on the open standards foundation of Cloud Foundry and powered by SoftLayer's cloud infrastructure. SoftLayer offers cloud-based services, APIs and leading third-party services to developers in an integrated platform. Bluemix also allows them to mix and match different tools to build apps in the cloud for mobile, Web, big data and analytics<U+0097>to name just a few.    <U+0095> IBM Cloud marketplace brings together the company's vast portfolio of cloud capabilities, delivering a self-service, digital experience for developers, IT and business leaders. Visitors have access to a growing portfolio of cloud capabilities from IBM and qualified third-party vendors. Open integration including pre-built APIs and hybrid options enable enterprise integration and composable business models. The IBM Cloud is the most powerful choice for enterprise-grade environments<U+0097>bringing unparalleled levels of security, performance and scalability. As a result, in 2014, IBM formed a strategic alliance with SAP to run its business applications on IBM's cloud. Engagement: re-imagining work Social, mobile and unprecedented access to data are changing how individuals and institutions work together. A new class of customer has emerged: one who is empowered with knowledge, enriched by networks and expects value in return for sharing information. Enterprises must create a systematic approach to engage these newly empowered customers through more personalized interactions. IBM calls these new forms of interactions "engagement"<U+0097>and includes social collaboration and mobile<U+0097>both underpinned by high levels of security. In 2014, the mobile, social and security portfolio generated double-digit growth with mobile revenue more than tripling versus 2013, security revenue up 19 percent and social business growing 3 percent. In addition, IBM has acquired 23 companies related to mobile, social and security. On the mobile front, IBM and Apple formed an historic partnership to transform enterprise mobility as we know it today. Together, IBM and Apple are joining forces to bring the ease-of-use of personal apps to the enterprise environment. Together, the two companies are bringing the first wave of industry-specific apps to the market<U+0097>targeting the needs of individual workers and helping to solve long-standing industry challenges. In addition, MobileFirst remains IBM's unified approach to help clients and partners deliver best-in-class mobile solutions, take advantage of more commercial opportunities and provide a superior customer experience. On the social collaboration front, in 2014, IDC named IBM the worldwide market share leader in Enterprise Social Software for the fifth consecutive year.(1) In addition, IBM Verse, powered by IBM analytics and advanced search, is a new cloud-based messaging and social collaboration solution to manage the workday. It provides a seamless user experience across social networking, meetings, chat, documents, mail, and an array of intelligent, security-rich and engaging social apps on mobile devices or the Web. Security is a boardroom-level issue. It is also a key enabler for the continued growth of data, cloud and engagement. Enterprises<U+0097>and their clients<U+0097>demand that these activities be secure as a requirement for participation. The magnitude, sophistication and complexity of today's security threats are growing. With the proliferation of data on mobile devices, in social media and in the cloud, breaches are more visible and (1)IDC Worldwide Enterprise Social Networks 2014-2018 Forecast and 2013 Vendor Shares, July 23, 2014. 3 occur on a heightened scale. IBM Security solutions use sophisticated analytics to identify and thwart attacks in realtime<U+0097>protecting our clients' information, processes and people. IBM Security brings to our clients high-end consulting, advanced fraud and threat protection, identity and access management, application and data security, mobile and cloud security, network and end-point protection with services for cloud. 2.     Our Unique Strength Data, cloud and engagement are powerful forces changing the landscape of technology and businesses. However, enterprise clients need more. Enterprises need to bring this new world of technology together with the existing systems that currently run their businesses if they are to capture their full value. This combination is what we refer to as Hybrid Cloud. Without bringing these worlds together, these new technologies become "islands" within the enterprise. For example, a business that invests in a social media platform engages with and captures the sentiment of individual customers. These can be valuable interactions. However, much deeper insight into the needs and wants of an individual customer comes when combining the social media interactions with the historical purchase and engagement records of that customer<U+0097>as stored in existing systems. By combining these insights, the enterprise personalizes interactions in ways that are relevant and meaningful to that customer. IBM is unique in bringing this Hybrid world to its clients with our unparalleled strength in both the existing and the new worlds of IT. IBM supports its clients' mission critical processes, and remains the "go-to" platform for the enterprise. For example, more than 90 percent of the top 100 banks and the top 25 U.S. retailers run on IBM systems. In addition, nearly half of the Fortune 100 companies outsource IT operations to IBM. The company's leadership in enterprise computing provides the foundation for strategic partnerships as leading companies want to work with IBM, as evidenced by the Apple, SAP, Twitter and Tencent partnerships announced in 2014. Combine this with the company's strength in the new worlds of data, cloud and engagement<U+0097>and IBM brings a unique and important capability to the market. 3.     Our Migration to Higher Value Technology by itself does not create value for a business. Technology enables a business to achieve its aspirations by facilitating richer interactions with clients and ecosystems, by unlocking deeper insight and by enabling faster actions. IBM has continuously evolved its mission to deliver increasingly higher levels of business value to its clients. Starting primarily as a hardware company, IBM has added a rich portfolio of software and services to add higher value. This next phase of IBM's transformation will realize the full breadth of the portfolio by bringing higher-value added solutions to our clients. Examples include: <U+0095> Using predictive analytics to reduce customer attrition rates through the IBM Customer Data solution.     <U+0095> Detecting fraudulent claims before payments are made through the IBM Counter Fraud solution.     <U+0095> Preventing costly and unscheduled downtime of equipment through early detection of anomalies with the IBM Predictive Asset Optimization solution. 4 The focus on integrated solutions will make IBM a stronger partner with its clients as the company takes another step in its continuous evolution to higher levels of value. Summary One constant throughout IBM's over 100-year history has been the need to continually transform the company in an ever-changing industry. Our industry, our clients<U+0097>and IBM itself<U+0097>is in the midst of such a fundamental transformation. This is a transformation of unparalleled growth and promise: <U+0095> The promise of technology to bring extraordinary levels of insight to human endeavors through advances in analytics and cognitive computing.    <U+0095> The promise of the cloud as a catalyst for innovation, freeing enterprises to focus more on the uses of technology rather than just the technology itself.    <U+0095> The promise of enterprises engaging with their customers, their employees and their business partners through richer, more personalized means.    <U+0095> All underscored by security to help protect the integrity of every interaction. We are excited about the prospects for growth and value for our clients<U+0097>and for IBM<U+0097>and we look forward to helping our clients transform their businesses for the future. Business Model The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping enterprise clients to become more innovative, efficient and competitive through the application of business insight and IT solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have superior long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients. The company's global capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide integrated solutions to the company's clients. The business model is dynamic, adapting to the continuously changing market and economic environment. The company continues to divest certain businesses and strengthen its position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value areas. In addition, the company has transformed itself into a globally integrated enterprise which has improved overall productivity and is driving investment and expanding participation in markets with significant long-term opportunity. This business model, supported by the company's financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term. Business Segments and Capabilities The company's major operations consists of five business segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services, which the company collectively calls Global Services, Software, Systems and Technology and Global Financing. Global Services: is a critical component of the company's strategy of providing IT infrastructure and business insight and solutions to clients. While solutions often include industry-leading IBM software and systems, other suppliers' products are also used if a client solution requires it. Approximately 60 percent of external Global Services segment revenue is annuity based, coming primarily from outsourcing and maintenance arrangements. The Global Services backlog provides a 5 solid revenue base entering each year. Within Global Services, there are two reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services. Global Technology Services (GTS) primarily provides IT infrastructure and business process services, creating business value for clients through unique technology and IP integrated services within its global delivery model. By leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM's global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading-edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility, cost and outcomes. GTS Capabilities Strategic Outsourcing: delivers comprehensive IT outsourcing services dedicated to transforming clients' existing infrastructures to consistently deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The company integrates long-standing expertise in service management and technology with the ability to exploit the power of new technologies from IBM systems and software, such as cloud computing, analytics and virtualization, to deliver high performance, innovation and improved ability to achieve business objectives. Global Process Services: included within Strategic Outsourcing, delivers a range of offerings consisting of standardized through transformational solutions including processing platforms and business process outsourcing. These services deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure. Global Process Services will be integrated within Global Business Services beginning in 2015. Integrated Technology Services: delivers a portfolio of project-based and managed services that enable clients to transform and optimize their IT environments by driving efficiency, flexibility and productivity, while reducing costs. The standardized portfolio is built around key assets and patented software, and incorporates best practices and proven methodologies that ensure predictive quality of delivery, security and compliance. Cloud: delivers a comprehensive set of cloud services ranging from assisting clients with building their own private clouds, to building customized dedicated managed clouds, to allowing clients to leverage standardized cloud infrastructure services from the SoftLayer and Cloud Managed Services offerings, to creating hybrid environments linking their private and public workloads together. This portfolio of cloud offerings spans across the GTS business lines. Technology Support Services (Maintenance Services): delivers a complete line of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the availability of clients' IT infrastructures. Global Business Services (GBS) has the mission to deliver predictable business outcomes to the company's clients across two primary business areas: Consulting and Systems Integration and Application Management Services. These professional services deliver business value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry and business process expertise. The role of GBS is to drive initiatives that integrate IBM content and solutions and drive the progress of the company's strategic imperatives. As clients transform themselves in response to market trends like big data, social and mobile computing, GBS helps clients use these technologies to reinvent relationships with their customers and realize new standards of efficacy and efficiency in the internal processes, data and applications that they use to run their businesses. GBS Capabilities Consulting and Systems Integration: delivering client value with solutions in Strategy and Transformation, Application Innovation Services, Enterprise Applications and Smarter Analytics. 6 Consulting is also focused on bringing to market client solutions that drive Smarter Commerce, Cloud, Mobile and Social Business. Application Management Services: delivers application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as application testing and modernization, cloud application services, the company's highly differentiated globally integrated capability model, industry knowledge and the standardization and automation of application management. Software consists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables clients to integrate systems, processes and applications across a standard software platform to improve their business results, solve critical problems and gain competitive advantage within their industries. IBM middleware is designed on open standards, making it easier to integrate disparate business applications, developed by different methods and implemented at different times. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. Approximately 70 percent of external Software segment revenue is annuity based, coming from recurring license charges, software sold "as a service" and ongoing post-contract support. The remaining revenue relates to one-time charge (OTC) arrangements in which clients pay one, up-front payment for a perpetual license. Typically, the sale of OTC software includes one year of post-contract support. Clients can also purchase ongoing post-contract support after the first year, which includes unspecified product upgrades and technical support. Software Capabilities WebSphere: delivers capabilities that enable organizations to run high-performance business applications. With these applications, clients can integrate and manage business processes across their organizations with the flexibility and agility they need to respond to changing conditions. Built on services-oriented architecture (SOA), and open standards support for cloud, mobile and social interactions, the WebSphere platform enables enterprises to extend their reach and optimize interactions with their key constituents. Smarter Commerce software helps companies better manage and improve each step of their value chain and capitalize on opportunities for profitable growth, efficiency and increased customer loyalty. Information Management: enables clients to integrate, manage and analyze enormous amounts of data from a large variety of sources in order to gain competitive advantage and improve their business outcomes. With this approach, clients can extract real value out of their data and use it to make better business decisions. IBM's middleware and integrated solutions include advanced database management, information integration, data governance, enterprise content management, data warehousing, business analytics and intelligence, predictive analytics and big data analytics. Watson Solutions: the first commercially available cognitive computing platform that has the ability to interact in natural language, processing vast amounts of big data, and learning from its interactions with people and computers. As an advisor, Watson is able to sift through and understand large amounts of data delivering insights with unprecedented speeds and accuracy. Tivoli: helps clients optimize the value they get from their infrastructures and technology assets through greater visibility, control and automation across their end-to-end business operations. These asset management solutions foster integrated service delivery for cloud and datacenter management, enterprise endpoint and mobile device management, asset and facilities management, and storage management. Tivoli includes security systems software that provides clients with a single security intelligence platform that enables them to better secure all aspects of their enterprise and prevent security breaches. Workforce Solutions: enables businesses to connect people and processes for more effective communication and increased productivity through collaboration, messaging and social networking 7 software. By remaining at the forefront of collaboration tools, IBM's social business offerings help organizations reap real benefits associated with social networking, as well as create a more efficient and effective workforce. Rational: supports software development for both IT and complex embedded system solutions, with a portfolio of products and solutions supporting DevOps and Smarter Product Development, transforming the way lines of business, development and operations work together to deliver innovation via software. Mobile: spans middleware and offers customers true end-to-end mobile solutions across platform and application development, mobile security, and mobile device management. Leveraging powerful analytics and usage data, customers are provided with the ability to have more compelling interactions with their clients and workforce, increasing touchpoints and deepening relationships. The mobile offerings provide the ability to increase workforce productivity through enhanced collaboration, improved knowledge sharing and increased response speed. In January 2015, the company made several changes designed to more effectively align its key capabilities and resources to its strategic imperatives. These changes will enable the company to respond more quickly to critical client agendas and drive higher value. Across Software, the company is transitioning its portfolio to capture growth and continue to drive innovation. The focus will be centered around analytics, security, and commerce<U+0097>similar to the action the company implemented in 2014 with Watson<U+0097>utilizing its software assets to improve speed and agility in bringing integrated solutions to its clients. Systems and Technology (STG) provides clients with innovative infrastructure technologies to help meet the new requirements of data, cloud and engagement<U+0097>from deploying advanced analytics, to moving to digital service delivery with the cloud, and securing mobile transaction processing. Approximately half of Systems and Technology's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners; with the balance direct to end-user clients. In addition, Systems and Technology provides leading semiconductor technology, products and packaging solutions for IBM's own advanced technology needs. Systems and Technology Capabilities Servers: a range of high-performance systems designed to address capacity, security, speed and compute power needs for businesses, organizations and technical computing applications. After the divestiture of the System x industry standard server business, the portfolio includes System z, a trusted enterprise platform for integrating data, transactions and insight, and Power Systems, a system designed from the ground up for big data, optimized for scale-out cloud and Linux, and delivering open innovation with OpenPOWER. The company is also a founding member of the OpenPOWER foundation, a group of industry-leading companies working together to develop high-performance compute solutions based on the IBM POWER architecture. Storage: data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization including data deduplication, availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of software defined storage solutions, disk and tape storage systems and Flash storage and solutions. Technology: the company's continued leadership in systems requires ongoing investments in semiconductor and material science research and development that drives innovation that matters for our clients. In 2014, the company announced a definitive agreement to divest its Microelectronics business, and manufacturing operations. This transaction is expected to close in 2015. 8 Global Financing facilitates IBM clients' acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise. The financing arrangements are predominantly for products or services that are critical to the end users' business operations. These financing contracts are entered into after a comprehensive credit evaluation and are secured by legal contracts. As a captive financier, Global Financing has the benefit of both deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services financed. These factors allow the business to effectively manage two of the major risks, credit and residual value, associated with financing while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also maintains a long term partnership with the companies' clients through various stages of IT asset life cycle<U+0097>from initial purchase and technology upgrades to asset disposition decisions. Global Financing Capabilities Client Financing: lease and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms up to seven years. Assets financed are primarily IT products and services where the company has expertise. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Global Services' long-term client service contracts. Global Financing also factors a selected portion of the company's accounts receivable, primarily for cash management purposes. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions. Commercial Financing: short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Remanufacturing and Remarketing: used equipment is returned from lease transactions, or may be surplus equipment internally or externally purchased. These assets may be refurbished or upgraded and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally or internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Systems and Technology and Global Services. Systems and Technology may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients. IBM WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATIONS The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients: <U+0095> Sales and Distribution    <U+0095> Research, Development and Intellectual Property    <U+0095> Integrated Supply Chain Sales and Distribution IBM has a significant global presence, operating in more than 175 countries, with an increasingly broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company's Sales and Distribution organization manages the IBM global footprint, with dedicated country-based operating units focused on delivering unique value and superior experiences for clients. Within these units, client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to enable clients' business growth and innovation. These teams deliver value by understanding the clients' businesses and needs, and then bring together capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions. By combining global expertise with local experience, IBM's geographic structure enables dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align industry-skilled resources to serve clients' agendas. IBM extends capabilities to mid-market client segments by leveraging industry skills with marketing, Inside Sales and local Business Partner resources. 9 The company continues to invest to capture the long-term opportunity in key growth markets around the world<U+0097>China, India and countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. The company's major markets include the G7 countries of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (UK) plus Austria, the Bahamas, Belgium, the Caribbean region, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. Research, Development and Intellectual Property IBM's research and development (R&D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests approximately 6 percent of total revenue for R&D, focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and the company's business units through global labs on near-term and mid-term innovations. It contributes many new technologies to IBM's portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research also explores the boundaries of science and technology<U+0097>from nanotechnology to future systems, big data analytics, secure clouds and to IBM Watson, a "cognitive" learning system. IBM Research also focuses on differentiating IBM's services businesses, providing new capabilities and solutions. It has the world's largest mathematics department of any public company, enabling IBM to create unique analytic solutions and actively engage with clients on their toughest challenges. In February 2015, the company announced a new IBM Research lab to be located in South Africa. This will be IBM Research's 13th global lab. In 2014, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company for the 22nd consecutive year. IBM's 7,534 patents awarded in 2014 represent a diverse range of inventions poised to enable significant innovations that will position the company to compete and lead in the emerging opportunities represented by cloud, big data and analytics, security, social and mobile. These inventions also will advance the new era of cognitive systems where machines will learn, reason and interact with people in more natural ways. It was the most U.S. patents ever awarded to one company in a single year. The company continues to actively seek intellectual property (IP) protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its IP leadership. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. While the company's various proprietary IP rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Integrated Supply Chain IBM has an extensive integrated supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. In 2014, the company also managed approximately $21.8 billion in procurement spending for its clients through the Global Process Services organization. The supply, manufacturing and logistics operations are integrated in one operating unit that has optimized inventories over time. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved sales force productivity and operational effectiveness and efficiency. Supply chain resiliency enables IBM to reduce its risk during marketplace changes. The company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain providing a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients. IBM leverages its supply chain expertise for clients through its supply chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end supply chain processes, from procurement to logistics. 10 Utilizing analytics, mobile, cloud and social<U+0097>with numerous projects, has allowed the integrated supply chain to drive positive business outcomes for the company and its clients. COMPETITION The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, operating in more than 175 countries. The company participates in a highly competitive environment, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across its business segments, the company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide. Across its business, the company's principal methods of competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to clients; and, service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and integrate. The company has been executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through organic investments and strategic acquisitions. As the company executes its strategy, it enters new markets, such as cloud, business analytics and "as-a-service" solutions, which exposes the company to new competitors. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments. A summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below: Global Services: The services segments, GTS and GBS, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. GTS competes in strategic outsourcing, business process outsourcing, cloud services, and a wide range of technical and IT support services. GBS competes in consulting, system integration and application management services. The principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, industry knowledge and experience, value and speed, price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in the services business include its global reach and scale, global delivery model, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise, services assets, an ability to deliver integrated solutions that can address clients' needs in any environment and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. The company competes with broad based competitors including: Accenture, Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon), Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu, Google Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company (HP) and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft); India-based service providers; the consulting practices of public accounting firms; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas. Software: The enterprise management software market is highly competitive, and increasingly technology companies are looking to implement software solutions that will improve business outcomes for their clients. The key competitive factors in this segment include: functionality, ease-of-use, scalability, open standards, total cost-of-ownership and business value. IBM's leadership in each of these areas, and the ability to deliver solutions that drive business results, provides it with competitive advantages. The company's software business includes middleware and solutions software offerings, delivered both on-premise and "as-a-service", and operating systems. The middleware portfolio is the broadest in the industry and covers both mainframe and distributed computing environments. The middleware portfolio also underpins IBM's solutions business and enhances the business value the company brings to clients. The solutions portfolio provides comprehensive business and industry-specific offerings to new types of IT decision makers, such as chief marketing and procurement officers, chief information security 11 officers and chief financial officers. The depth and breadth of the software offerings, coupled with the company's global sales and technical support infrastructure, differentiate the software business from its competitors. The company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio also contribute to this segment's leadership. The company's principal competitors in this segment include CA, Inc., Microsoft, Oracle Corporation (Oracle), Salesforce.com and SAP. The company also competes with smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets worldwide. Systems and Technology: The enterprise server and storage market is characterized by technology and service innovation, with competition focused on value, function, reliability, price and cost performance. New entrants are leveraging innovation in technology and delivery of services to compete against traditional providers and offerings. The company's principal competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), Dell, Inc., EMC Corporation, HP and Oracle. Additionally, infrastructure-as-a-service providers such as Amazon Web Services who offer IT as a service and original device manufacturers who offer re-branded, lower cost system hardware alternatives compete with the company in this area. The company's investments in virtualization technologies, software optimization capabilities, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and the ability of its systems platforms to leverage the entire system, from the company's custom semiconductors through the software stack to increase efficiency, lower cost and improve performance, provide the company with competitive advantages in this segment. In addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's leadership. Global Financing: Global Financing provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. Global Financing's access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive advantage for the company. The key competitive factors include price, IT product expertise, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business, global capabilities and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of companies in providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of companies such as Cisco and HP and non-captive financing entities of companies such as General Electric Company and banks or financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market. Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are based on the company's current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements by their nature address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on pages 14 to 19 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. 12 Readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference. The following information is included in IBM's 2014 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference: Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or services<U+0097>pages 145 to 150. Financial information by geographic areas<U+0097>page 149. Amount spent during each of the last three years on R&D activities<U+0097>page 127. Financial information regarding environmental activities<U+0097>page 118. The number of persons employed by the registrant<U+0097>page 73. The management discussion overview<U+0097>pages 22 to 25. Available information<U+0097>page 155. Also refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form. Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 24, 2015): Age    Officer since     Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer*     57     2005    Colleen F. Arnold, Senior Vice President, IBM Sales and Distribution     57     2010    Michelle H. Browdy, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel     50     2015    Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, IBM Sales and Distribution     56     2010    Bruno V. Di Leo Allen, Senior Vice President, IBM Sales and Distribution     57     2012    Diane J. Gherson, Senior Vice President, Human Resources     57     2013    Jon C. Iwata, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications     52     2002    Martin Jetter, Senior Vice President, IBM Global Technology Services     55     2014    James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President, Transformation and Operations     48     2008    John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President, Solutions Portfolio and Research     61     2000    Kenneth M. Keverian, Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy     58     2014    Arvind Krishna, Senior Vice President and Director, IBM Research     52     2015    Robert J. LeBlanc, Senior Vice President, IBM Cloud     56     2010    Steven A. Mills, Executive Vice President, Software and Systems     63     2000    Robert J. Picciano, Senior Vice President, IBM Analytics     50     2014    Michael D. Rhodin, Senior Vice President, IBM Watson     54     2010    Thomas W. Rosamilia, Senior Vice President, IBM Systems     54     2013    Martin J. Schroeter, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     50     2014    Stanley J. Sutula III, Vice President and Controller     49     2015    Bridget A. van Kralingen, Senior Vice President, IBM Global Business Services     51     2012 *Member of the Board of Directors. All executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders as provided in the By-laws. Each 13 executive officer named above, with the exception of Kenneth M. Keverian, has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years. Mr. Keverian was a Senior Partner at the Boston Consulting Group, a global management consulting firm, until joining IBM in 2014. He was with Boston Consulting Group for 26 years and he focused on serving technology companies in the computing and communications sectors.