ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
GENERAL 
Our vision 
Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. Our strategy is to build best-in-class platforms and productivity services for a mobile-first, cloud-first world. 
The mobile-first, cloud-first world is transforming the way individuals and organizations use and interact with technology. Our worldview for mobile-first is not about the mobility of devices; it is centered on the mobility of experiences that, in turn, are orchestrated by the cloud. Cloud computing and storage solutions provide users and enterprises with various capabilities to store and process their data in third-party data centers. Mobility encompasses the rich collection of data, applications, and services that accompany our customers as they move from setting to setting in their lives. We are transforming our businesses to enable Microsoft to lead the direction of this transformation, and enable our customers and partners to thrive in this evolving world. 
What we offer 
Founded in 1975, we operate worldwide and have offices in more than 100 countries. We develop, license, and support a wide range of software products, services, and devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value to people’s lives. We offer an array of services, including cloud-based services, to consumers and businesses. We design, manufacture, and sell devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and we deliver relevant online advertising to a global audience. 
Our products include operating systems for computing devices, servers, phones, and other intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; cross-device productivity applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and online advertising. We also design and sell hardware including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, phones, other intelligent devices, and related accessories. We offer cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content. We also provide consulting and product and solution support services, and we train and certify computer system integrators and developers. 
 
3 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
The ambitions that drive us 
To carry out our strategy, our research and development efforts focus on three interconnected ambitions: 
 
 • Reinvent productivity and business processes.  
 • Build the intelligent cloud platform.  
 • Create more personal computing. Reinvent productivity and business processes 
We believe we can significantly enhance the lives of our customers using our broad portfolio of communication, productivity, and information services that spans devices and platforms. Productivity will be the first and foremost objective, to enable people to meet and collaborate more easily, and to effectively express ideas in new ways. We will design applications as dual-use with the intelligence to partition data between work and life while respecting each person’s privacy choices. The foundation for these efforts will rest on advancing our leading productivity, collaboration, and business process tools including Skype, OneDrive, OneNote, Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Bing, and Dynamics. With Office 365, we provide these familiar industry-leading productivity and business process tools as cloud services, enabling access from anywhere and any device. This creates an opportunity to reach new customers, and expand the usage of our services by our existing customers. 
We see opportunity in combining our offerings in new ways that are more contextual and personal, while ensuring people, rather than their devices, remain at the center of the digital experience. We will offer our services across ecosystems and devices outside our own. As people move from device to device, so will their content and the richness of their services. We are engineering our applications so users can find, try, and buy them in friction-free ways. 
Build the intelligent cloud platform 
In deploying technology that advances business strategy, enterprises decide what solutions will make employees more productive, collaborative, and satisfied, and connect with customers in new and compelling ways. They work to unlock business insights from a world of data. To achieve these objectives, increasingly businesses look to leverage the benefits of the cloud. Helping businesses move to the cloud is one of our largest opportunities, and we believe we work from a position of strength. 
The shift to the cloud is driven by three important economies of scale: larger datacenters can deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; larger datacenters can coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy lowers application maintenance labor costs for large public clouds. As one of the largest providers of cloud computing at scale, we are well-positioned to help businesses move to the cloud so that businesses can focus on innovation while leaving non-differentiating activities to reliable and cost-effective providers like Microsoft. 
With Azure, we are one of very few cloud vendors that run at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities. We believe the combination of Azure and Windows Server makes us the only company with a public, private, and hybrid cloud platform that can power modern business. We are working to enhance the return on information technology (“IT”) investment by enabling enterprises to combine their existing datacenters and our public cloud into a single cohesive infrastructure. Businesses can deploy applications in their own datacenter, a partner’s datacenter, or in our datacenters with common security, management, and administration across all environments, with the flexibility and scale they want. 
We enable organizations to securely adopt software-as-a-service applications (both our own and third-party) and integrate them with their existing security and management infrastructure. We will continue to innovate with higher-level services including identity and directory services that manage employee corporate identity and manage and secure corporate information accessed and stored across a growing number of devices, rich data storage and analytics services, machine learning services, media services, web and mobile backend services, and developer 
 
4 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
productivity services. To foster a rich developer ecosystem, our digital work and life experiences will also be extensible, enabling customers and partners to further customize and enhance our solutions, achieving even more value. This strategy requires continuing investment in datacenters and other infrastructure to support our devices and services. 
Create more personal computing 
Windows 10 is the cornerstone of our ambition to usher in an era of more personal computing. We see the launch of Windows 10 in July 2015 as a critical, transformative moment for the Company because we will move from an operating system that runs on a PC to a service that can power the full spectrum of devices in our customers’ lives. We developed Windows 10 not only to be familiar to our users, but more safe and secure, and always up-to-date. We believe Windows 10 is more personal and productive, working seamlessly with functionality such as Cortana, Office, Continuum, and universal applications. We designed Windows 10 to foster innovation – from us, our partners and developers – through experiences such as our new browser Microsoft Edge, across the range of existing devices, and into entirely new device categories. 
Our ambition for Windows 10 is to broaden our economic opportunity through three key levers: an original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) ecosystem that creates exciting new hardware designs for Windows 10; our own commitment to the health and profitability of our first-party premium device portfolio; and monetization opportunities such as services, subscriptions, gaming, and search. Our OEM partners are investing in an extensive portfolio of hardware designs and configurations as they ready for Windows 10. By December 2015, we anticipate the widest range of Windows hardware ever to be available. 
With the launch of Windows 10, we are realizing our vision of a single, unified Windows operating system on which developers and OEMs can contribute to a thriving Windows ecosystem. We invest heavily to make Windows the most secure, manageable, and capable operating system for the needs of a modern workforce. We are working to create a broad developer opportunity by unifying the installed base to Windows 10 through upgrades and ongoing updates, and by enabling universal Windows applications to run across all device targets. As part of our strategic objectives, we are committed to designing and marketing first-party devices to help drive innovation, create new categories, and stimulate demand in the Windows ecosystem, including across PCs, phones, tablets, consoles, wearables, large multi-touch displays, and new categories such as the HoloLens holographic computing platform. We are developing new input/output methods like speech, pen, gesture, and augmented reality holograms to power more personal computing experiences with Windows 10. 
Our future opportunity 
There are several distinct areas of technology that we aim to drive forward. Our goal is to lead the industry in these areas over the long-term, which we expect will translate to sustained growth. We are investing significant resources in: 
 
 • Delivering new productivity, entertainment, and business processes to improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, play, and interact with one another.  
 • Establishing the Windows platform across the PC, tablet, phone, server, other devices, and the cloud to drive a thriving ecosystem of developers, unify the cross-device user experience, and increase agility when bringing new advances to market.  
 • Building and running cloud-based services in ways that unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals.  
 • Developing new devices that have increasingly natural ways to interact with them, including speech, pen, gesture, and augmented reality holograms.  
 • Applying machine learning to make technology more intuitive and able to act on our behalf, instead of at our command. We believe the breadth of our products and services portfolio, our large global partner and customer base, our growing ecosystem, and our ongoing investment in innovation position us to be a leader in these areas and differentiate ourselves from competitors. 
 
5 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
OPERATING SEGMENTS 
We operate our business in six segments. Our Devices and Consumer (“D&C”) segments include D&C Licensing, Computing and Gaming Hardware, Phone Hardware, and D&C Other. Our Commercial segments include Commercial Licensing and Commercial Other. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. In June 2015, we announced a change in organizational structure as part of our transformation in the mobile-first, cloud-first world. As we evolve how we allocate resources and analyze performance in the new structure, it is possible that our segments may change. 
On April 25, 2014, we acquired substantially all of Nokia Corporation’s (“Nokia”) Devices and Services Business (“NDS”). We report the financial performance of the acquired business in our Phone Hardware segment. Prior to the acquisition of NDS, financial results associated with our joint strategic initiatives with Nokia were reflected in our D&C Licensing segment. The contractual relationship with Nokia related to those initiatives ended in conjunction with the acquisition. 
Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 22 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). 
Devices and Consumer 
Our D&C segments develop, manufacture, market, and support products and services designed to entertain and connect people, increase personal productivity, help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and help advertisers connect with audiences. Our D&C segments are made up of D&C Licensing, Computing and Gaming Hardware, Phone Hardware, and D&C Other. 
D&C Licensing 
The principal products and services provided by the D&C Licensing segment are: Windows, including all OEM licensing (“Windows OEM”) and other non-volume licensing and academic volume licensing of the Windows operating system and related software; non-volume licensing of Microsoft Office, comprising the core Office product set, for consumers (“Office Consumer”); Windows Phone operating system, including related patent licensing; and certain other patent licensing revenue. 
The Windows operating system is designed to deliver a more personal computing experience for users by enabling consistency of experience, applications, and information across their devices. 
Windows revenue is impacted significantly by the number of Windows operating system licenses purchased by OEMs, which they pre-install on the devices they sell. In addition to computing device market volume, Windows revenue is impacted by: 
 
 • The mix of computing devices based on form factor and screen size.  
 • Differences in device market demand between developed markets and emerging markets.  
 • Attachment of Windows to devices shipped.  
 • Customer mix between consumer, small- and medium-sized businesses, and large enterprises.  
 • Changes in inventory levels in the OEM channel.  
 • Pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix of devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders to large, multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions licensed.  
 • Piracy.  
6 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
The versions of Office included in our D&C Licensing segment are designed to increase personal productivity through a range of programs, services, and software solutions. Growth depends on our ability to add value to the core product set and to continue to expand our product offerings in other areas such as content management and collaboration. Office Consumer revenue is impacted by sales to customers that buy Office with their new devices and by product launches, as well as the transition to Office 365 Consumer, our subscription-based cloud service that provides access to Office plus other productivity services. Office 365 Consumer revenue is included in our D&C Other segment. 
The Windows Phone operating system is designed to bring users closer to the people, applications, and content they need. As noted above, prior to our acquisition of NDS, Microsoft and Nokia jointly created new mobile products and services and extended established products and services to new markets through a strategic alliance. Windows Phone revenue associated with this contractual relationship was reflected in D&C Licensing. Windows Phone revenue also includes revenue from licensing mobile-related patents. 
Competition 
The Windows operating system faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. We believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity, and the largest support network for any operating system. 
Competitors to the versions of Office included in D&C Licensing include global application vendors such as Apple and Google, numerous web-based and mobile application competitors, and local application developers in Asia and Europe. Apple distributes versions of its pre-installed application software, such as email, note-taking, and calendar products, through its PCs, tablets, and phones. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications can also position themselves as alternatives to our products. We believe our products compete effectively based on our strategy of providing powerful, flexible, secure, and easy to use solutions that work across a variety of devices. 
Windows Phone operating system faces competition from iOS, Android, and Blackberry operating systems. Windows Phone competes based on differentiated user interface, personalized applications, compatibility with Windows PCs and tablets, and other unique capabilities. 
Computing and Gaming Hardware 
The principal products and services provided by the Computing and Gaming Hardware segment are: Xbox gaming and entertainment consoles and accessories, second-party and third-party video game royalties, and Xbox Live subscriptions (“Xbox Platform”); Surface devices and accessories (“Surface”); and Microsoft PC accessories. 
The Xbox Platform is designed to provide a unique variety of entertainment choices through the use of our devices, peripherals, content, and online services. We released Xbox 360 and Xbox One in November 2005 and November 2013, respectively. 
Surface is designed to help organizations, students, and consumers to be more productive. Our latest Surface devices, the Surface Pro 3 and Surface 3, were released in June 2014 and May 2015, respectively. 
Competition 
Our Xbox Platform competes with console platforms from Sony and Nintendo, both of which have a large, established base of customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles averages five to ten years. Nintendo released their latest generation console in November 2012. Sony released their latest generation console in November 2013. 
 
7 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
We believe the success of gaming and entertainment consoles is determined by the availability of games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the console, and the ability to create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and peripherals. In addition to Sony and Nintendo, we compete with other providers of entertainment services through online marketplaces. We believe the Xbox Platform is effectively positioned against competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises as well as other digital content offerings. 
Surface devices face competition from Apple, as well as other computer, tablet, and hardware manufacturers, many of which are also current or potential partners and customers. 
Phone Hardware 
The principal products provided by the Phone Hardware segment are Lumia phones and other non-Lumia phones, which we began manufacturing and selling with the acquisition of NDS on April 25, 2014. Our Lumia phones run Windows and are designed to enable people and organizations to connect to the people and content that matter most, using integrated Microsoft services such as Outlook, OneDrive, Skype, and Office.
Competition 
Our phones face competition primarily from Apple, Samsung, and many other mobile device manufacturers running the Android operating system, and offer a unique combination of high-quality industrial design and innovative imaging technologies across various price points. 
D&C Other 
The principal products and services provided by the D&C Other segment are: Resale, consisting of transactions in our Windows Store and Xbox marketplace; search advertising; display advertising; Office 365 Consumer, comprising Office 365 Home and Office 365 Personal; Studios, comprising first-party video games; Mojang; and non-Microsoft products sold in our retail stores. 
Our online application marketplaces are designed to benefit our developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base and benefit users by providing centralized access to certified applications. Xbox Live transactions consist of online entertainment content, such as games, music, movies, and TV shows, accessible on Xbox consoles and other devices. 
Search and display advertising includes Bing, Bing Ads, MSN, and Xbox ads. We have a partnership with Yahoo! in which we provide algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! websites worldwide. In June 2015, we entered into agreements with AOL and AppNexus to outsource our display sales efforts. 
Office 365 Consumer is designed to increase personal productivity through a range of Microsoft Office programs and services delivered across multiple platforms via the cloud. 
Studios designs and markets games for Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and online. Growth depends on our ability to attract new users and increase engagement by developing a deep library of content that consumers seek. 
We acquired Mojang Synergies AB (“Mojang”), the Swedish video game developer of the Minecraft gaming franchise, in November 2014. The addition of Minecraft and its community enhances our gaming portfolio across Windows, Xbox, and other ecosystems besides our own. 
Competition 
We face competition for our Resale products and services from various online marketplaces, including those operated by Amazon, Apple, and Google. 
 
8 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
Our search and display advertising business competes with Google and a wide array of websites, social platforms like Facebook, and portals like Yahoo! that provide content and online offerings to end users. Our success depends on our ability to attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content and advertiser offerings. We believe we can attract new users by continuing to offer new and compelling products and services. 
Competitors to Office 365 Consumer are the same as those discussed above for Office Consumer. 
Competitors to Studios and Mojang are the same as those discussed above for our Xbox gaming and entertainment business, as well as game studios like Electronic Arts and Activision Blizzard. 
Commercial 
Our Commercial segments develop, market, and support software and services designed to increase individual, team, and organizational productivity and efficiency, including simplifying everyday tasks through seamless operations across the user’s hardware and software. Commercial is made up of the Commercial Licensing and Commercial Other segments. 
Commercial Licensing 
The principal products and services provided by the Commercial Licensing segment are: server products, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”); Microsoft Office for business, including Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Skype for Business, and related CALs (“Office Commercial”); volume licensing of the Windows operating system, excluding academic (“Windows Commercial”); Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, excluding Dynamics CRM Online; Windows Embedded; and Skype. 
Our server products are designed to make information technology professionals and developers and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications built on the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software. We also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Revenue comes from purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to OEMs, and retail packaged product. CALs provide access rights to certain server products, including Windows Server and SQL Server. CAL revenue is reported along with the associated server product. 
The versions of Office in Commercial Licensing are designed to increase personal, team, and organizational productivity through a range of programs, services, and software solutions. Office Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and software assurance and the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise. Office Commercial revenue growth depends on our ability to add value to the core product set and to continue to expand our product offerings in other areas such as content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. CALs provide access rights to certain Office Commercial products, including Exchange, SharePoint, and Skype for Business, formerly Lync. CAL revenue is reported along with the associated Office product. 
Windows Commercial includes volume licensing of the Windows operating system, excluding academic. Windows Commercial revenue is affected mainly by the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and software assurance, often reflecting the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise, and is therefore relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given year. 
Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. Revenue is largely driven by the number of information workers licensed. 
 
9 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
Windows Embedded extends the power of Windows and the cloud to intelligent systems, including the Internet of Things (“IoT”), by delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services. 
Skype is designed to connect friends, family, clients, and colleagues through a variety of devices. Revenue is largely driven by the sale of minutes, subscriptions, and advertising. 
Competition 
Our server products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions of the Unix operating system preinstalled on server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute to Linux operating system development. The competitive position of Linux has also benefited from the large number of compatible applications now produced by many commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of companies, such as Red Hat, supply versions of Linux. 
We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and e-business servers. IBM and Oracle lead a group of companies focused on the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that competes with our enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for PC-based distributed client/server environments include CA Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our web application platform software competes with open source software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. In middleware, we compete against Java middleware vendors. 
Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, and other companies. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, other companies, and open-source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails, among others. 
We believe our server products provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. 
Competitors to Office Commercial includes software application vendors such as Adobe Systems, Apple, Cisco Systems, Google, IBM, Oracle, SAP, and numerous web-based and mobile application competitors as well as local application developers in Asia and Europe. Cisco Systems is using its position in enterprise communications equipment to grow its unified communications business. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications have also positioned themselves as alternatives to our products. We believe our products compete effectively based on our strategy of providing powerful, flexible, secure, easy to use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have and are available on a device or via the cloud. 
Competitors to Windows Commercial are the same as those discussed above for Windows in the D&C Licensing segment. 
Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such as Oracle and SAP in the market for large organizations and divisions of global enterprises. In the market focused on providing solutions for small and mid-sized businesses, our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such as Infor, The Sage Group, and NetSuite. Salesforce.com’s cloud customer relationship management (“CRM”) offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM on-premises offerings. 
 
10 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
Skype competes with a variety of instant messaging, voice, and video communication providers, ranging from start-ups to established enterprises. 
Commercial Other 
The principal products and services provided by the Commercial Other segment are: Commercial Cloud, comprising Office 365 Commercial, Microsoft Azure, Dynamics CRM Online, and other Microsoft Office online offerings; and Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. 
Office 365 Commercial is an online services offering that includes Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Skype for Business, and is available across a variety of devices and platforms. 
Microsoft Azure is a scalable cloud platform with computing, networking, storage, database, and management, along with advanced services such as analytics, and comprehensive solutions such as Enterprise Mobility Suite. Microsoft Azure also includes a flexible platform that helps developers build, deploy, and manage enterprise, mobile, web, and IoT applications, for any platform or device without having to worry about the underlying infrastructure. Microsoft Azure enables customers to devote more resources to development and use of applications that benefit their organizations, rather than managing on-premises hardware and software. 
Dynamics CRM Online is designed to provide customer relationship management and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. Revenue is largely driven by the number of information workers licensed. 
Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services, assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions and provide training and certification to developers and information technology professionals on various Microsoft products. 
Competition 
Competitors to Office 365 Commercial are the same as those discussed above for Office Commercial. 
Microsoft Azure faces diverse competition from companies such as Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, Salesforce.com, VMware, and open source offerings. Azure competes by enabling deployment of existing data centers with our public cloud into a single, cohesive infrastructure, and runs at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities. 
Dynamics CRM Online primarily competes with Salesforce.com’s on-demand CRM offerings. 
The Enterprise Services business competes with a wide range of companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies. 
OPERATIONS 
We have operations centers that support all operations in their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center in Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center in Singapore supports the Japan, India, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers in Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. In addition to the operations centers, we also operate data centers throughout the Americas, Australia, Europe, and Asia. 
To serve the needs of customers around the world and to improve the quality and usability of products in international markets, we localize many of our products to reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing a product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. 
 
11 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
We operate manufacturing facilities for the production and customization of phones, predominantly in Vietnam. 
Our Xbox consoles, Surface, first-party video games, Microsoft PC accessories, and other hardware are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. We generally have the ability to use other manufacturers if a current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
During fiscal years 2015, 2014, and 2013, research and development expense was $12.0 billion, $11.4 billion, and $10.4 billion, respectively. These amounts represented 13% of revenue in each of those years. We plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of research and development efforts. 
Product and Service Development and Intellectual Property 
We develop most of our products and services internally through three engineering groups. 
 
 • Applications and Services Engineering Group, focuses on broad applications and services core technologies in productivity, communication, education, search, and other information categories.  
 • Cloud and Enterprise Engineering Group, focuses on development of our cloud infrastructure, server, database, CRM, enterprise resource planning, management, development tools, and other business process applications and services for enterprises.  
 • Windows and Devices Engineering Group, focuses on our Windows platform across devices of all types, hardware development of our devices, including Xbox consoles, Surface devices, Lumia phones, non-Lumia phones, Surface Hub, Microsoft Band, and other hardware products and accessories, and associated online marketplaces. Internal development allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. It also gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. We strive to obtain information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, we also create product documentation internally. 
We protect our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. We are a leader among technology companies in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of over 57,000 U.S. and international patents issued and over 35,000 pending. While we employ much of our internally developed intellectual property exclusively in Microsoft products and services, we also engage in outbound and inbound licensing of specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees’ or Microsoft’s products. From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, or attracting and enabling our external development community. 
While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products. 
 
12 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
Investing in the Future 
Microsoft’s success is based on our ability to create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new geographic and product markets, and to drive broad adoption of our products and services. We invest in a range of emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that we believe offer significant opportunities to deliver value to our customers and growth for the company. Based on our assessment of key technology trends and our broad focus on long-term research and development, we maintain our long-term commitment to research and development across a wide spectrum of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning digital work and life experiences, cloud computing, and devices operating systems and hardware. 
While our main research and development facilities are located in Redmond, Washington, we also operate research and development facilities in other parts of the U.S. and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, Japan, and the United Kingdom, among others. This global approach helps us remain competitive in local markets and enables us to continue to attract top talent from across the world. We generally fund research at the corporate level to ensure that we are looking beyond immediate product considerations to opportunities further in the future. We also fund research and development activities at the business segment level. Much of our business segment level research and development is coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the company. 
In addition to our main research and development operations, we also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research is one of the world’s largest computer science research organizations, and works in close collaboration with top universities around the world to advance the state-of-the-art in computer science, providing us a unique perspective on future technology trends and contributing to our innovation. 
DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING 
We market and distribute our products and services through the following channels: OEMs; distributors and resellers; online; and Microsoft retail stores. Our sales force performs a variety of functions, including working directly with enterprises and public sector organizations worldwide to identify and meet their software requirements; managing OEM relationships; and supporting solution integrators, independent software vendors, and other partners who engage directly with our customers to perform sales, consulting, and fulfillment functions for our products. 
OEMs 
We distribute software through OEMs that pre-install our software on new PCs, tablets, servers, phones, and other intelligent devices that they sell. The largest component of the OEM business is the Windows operating system pre-installed on computing devices. OEMs also sell hardware pre-installed with other Microsoft products, including server and embedded operating systems and applications such as our Microsoft Office suite. In addition to these products, we also market our services through OEMs and service bundles such as Windows with Bing or Windows with Office 365 subscription. 
There are two broad categories of OEMs. The largest OEMs, many of which operate globally, are referred to as “Direct OEMs,” as our relationship with them is managed through a direct agreement between Microsoft and the OEM. We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our products with virtually all of the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUSTeK, Dell, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, Samsung, Toshiba, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category of OEMs consists of lower-volume PC manufacturers (also called “system builders”), which source their Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through a direct agreement or relationship with Microsoft. 
Distributors and Resellers 
Many organizations that license our products and services through enterprise agreements transact directly with us, with sales support from solution integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and developers that advise organizations on licensing our products and services (“Enterprise Agreement Direct Advisors”, or “EDAs”). 
 
13 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through license solutions partners (“LSPs”), distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), OEMs, system builder channels, and retailers. Although each type of reselling partner reaches organizations of all sizes, LSPs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily to VARs, and VARs typically reach small-sized and medium-sized organizations. EDAs typically are also authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for our other licensing programs, such as the Select Plus and Open licensing programs discussed under “Licensing Options” below. Some of our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some of our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, and Software House International. 
Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. We distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets, including Microsoft retail stores. We distribute our hardware products, including Surface, Xbox, phones, and PC accessories, through third-party retailers and Microsoft retail stores. Our phones are also distributed through global wireless communications carriers. We have a network of field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers, and provides product training and sales support. 
Online 
Although on-premises software continues to be an important part of our business, increasingly we are delivering additional value to customers through cloud-based services. We provide online content services to consumers through Bing, MSN portals and channels, Office 365, Windows Phone Store, Xbox Live, Outlook.com, OneDrive, Skype, and Windows Store. We also provide commercial cloud-based services such as Dynamics CRM Online, Microsoft Azure, and Office 365. Other services delivered online include our online advertising platform with offerings for advertisers and publishers, as well as Microsoft Developer Network subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources to support our partners in developing and selling our products and solutions. As we increasingly deliver online services, we sell many of these cloud-based services through our enterprise agreements and have also enabled new sales programs to reach small and medium-sized businesses. These programs include direct sales, direct sales supported by a large network of partner advisors, and resale of services through operator channels, such as telephone, cell, and cable providers. 
We also sell our products through our Microsoft retail stores and online marketplaces. 
LICENSING OPTIONS 
We license software to organizations under agreements that allow the customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services. Our agreements for organizations to acquire multiple licenses of products and services are designed to provide them with a means of doing so without having to acquire separate licenses through retail channels. In delivering organizational licensing agreements to the market, we use different programs designed to provide flexibility for organizations of various sizes. While these programs may differ in various parts of the world, generally they include those discussed below. 
Customer Licensing Programs 
Open Licensing 
Designed primarily for small-to-medium organizations, the Open Programs allow customers to acquire perpetual or subscription licenses and, at the customer’s election, rights to future versions of software products over a specified time period (two or three years depending on the Open Programs used). The offering that conveys rights to future versions of certain software products over the contract period is called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. The Open Programs have several variations to fit customers’ diverse ways of purchasing. Under the Open License Program, customers can acquire licenses only or licenses with software assurance, and/or renew software assurance upon the expiration 
 
14 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
of other existing volume licensing agreements. Under the Open Value and Open Value Subscription programs, customers can acquire perpetual or subscription licenses, respectively, over a three-year period. Online services are available in each of the Open Programs. 
Microsoft Product and Services Agreement 
Suited for medium-to-large organizations, the Microsoft Products and Services Agreement (“MPSA”) provides customers the ability to purchase online services subscriptions, software licenses, software licenses with software assurance, and renewals of software assurance through a single agreement. Software assurance and online services subscriptions are generally available up to three years. 
Select Plus Licensing 
Designed primarily for medium-to-large organizations, the Select Plus Program allows customers to acquire perpetual licenses and, at the customer’s election, software assurance over a specified time period (generally three years or less). Similar to Open Programs, the Select Plus Program allows customers to acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with software assurance, or renew software assurance upon the expiration of existing volume licensing agreements. A subset of online services are also available for purchase through the Select Plus Program, and subscriptions are generally structured with terms between one and three years. In July 2014, we announced that we would no longer sign new Select Plus agreements with commercial organizations starting July 2015, and encouraged customers who want to purchase licenses to transition to the MPSA. We expect Select Plus business to transition to the MPSA within a few years. 
Enterprise Agreement Licensing 
Designed primarily for medium- and large-sized organizations that want to acquire licenses to online services and/or software products, along with software assurance and obtain the best value by standardizing on a common IT platform across the organization. Enterprises can elect to acquire perpetual licenses or, under the Enterprise Subscription option, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription licenses for a specified period (generally three years). Online services are also available for purchase through the enterprise agreement and subscriptions are generally structured with three-year terms. 
Customer Licensing Programs — Online Services Only 
Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement is designed to enable small and medium-sized businesses to easily purchase Microsoft Online Services. The program allows customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based services. 
Partner Programs 
The Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider program enables partners to directly manage their entire Microsoft cloud customer lifecycle. Partners in this program use dedicated in-product tools to directly provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions. Partners can easily package their own tools, products, and services, and combine them into one monthly or annual customer bill. 
The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement is a program targeted at service providers and independent software vendors allowing these partners to provide software services and hosted applications to their end customers. Agreements are generally structured with a three-year term, and partners are billed monthly based upon consumption. 
Microsoft Online Services Reseller Agreement is a program enabling partners to package Microsoft online services with the partners’ services. 
Independent Software Vendor Royalty Program is a program that enables partners to use Microsoft software in their own software programs. 
 
15 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
CUSTOMERS 
Our customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, large global enterprises, public sector institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. No sales to an individual customer accounted for more than 10% of fiscal year 2015, 2014, or 2013 revenue. Our practice is to ship our products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant. 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
Our executive officers as of July 30, 2015 were as follows: 
 
Name  Age   Position with the CompanySatya Nadella   47    Chief Executive OfficerChristopher C. Capossela   45    Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing OfficerKathleen T. Hogan   49    Executive Vice President, Human ResourcesAmy E. Hood   43    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerMargaret Johnson   53    Executive Vice President, Business DevelopmentBradford L. Smith   56    Executive Vice President, General Counsel; SecretaryB. Kevin Turner   50    Chief Operating OfficerMr. Nadella was appointed Chief Executive Officer in February 2014. He served as Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise beginning July 2013. From 2011 to 2013, Mr. Nadella served as President, Server and Tools. From 2009 to 2011, he was Senior Vice President, Online Services Division. From 2008 to 2009, he was Senior Vice President, Search, Portal, and Advertising. Since joining Microsoft in 1992, Mr. Nadella’s roles included Vice President of Microsoft Business Division. 
Mr. Capossela was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer in March 2014. Previously, he served as the worldwide leader of the Consumer Channels Group, responsible for sales and marketing activities with OEMs, operators, and retail partners. In his more than 20 years at Microsoft, Mr. Capossela has held a variety of marketing leadership roles in the Microsoft Office Division. He was responsible for marketing productivity solutions including Microsoft Office, Office 365, SharePoint, Exchange, Skype for Business, Project, and Visio. 
Ms. Hogan was appointed Executive Vice President, Human Resources in November 2014. Prior to that Ms. Hogan was Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Services. She also served as Corporate Vice President of Customer Service and Support. Ms. Hogan joined Microsoft in 2003. 
Ms. Hood was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2013, subsequent to her appointment as Chief Financial Officer in May 2013. Beginning in 2010, Ms. Hood was Chief Financial Officer of the Microsoft Business Division. From 2006 through 2009, Ms. Hood was General Manager, Microsoft Business Division Strategy. Since joining Microsoft in 2002, Ms. Hood has also held finance-related positions in the Server and Tools Business and the corporate finance organization. 
Ms. Johnson was appointed Executive Vice President, Business Development in September 2014. Prior to that Ms. Johnson spent 24 years at Qualcomm in various leadership positions across engineering, sales, marketing and business development. She most recently served as Executive Vice President of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. Ms. Johnson also serves on the Board of Directors of Live Nation Entertainment, Inc. 
Mr. Smith was appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary in 2011. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since November 2001. Mr. Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer in 2002. He had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based in Paris. Mr. Smith joined Microsoft in 1993. Mr. Smith also serves on the Board of Directors of Netflix, Inc. 
 
16 

Table of Contents
 


PART I 
Item 1 
 
Mr. Turner was appointed Chief Operating Officer in September 2005. Before joining Microsoft, he was Executive Vice President of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Sam’s Club division. From 2001 to 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Wal-Mart’s Information Systems Division. From 2000 to 2001, he served as its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Information Systems Division. Mr. Turner also serves on the Board of Directors of Nordstrom, Inc. 
EMPLOYEES 
As of June 30, 2015, we employed approximately 118,000 people on a full-time basis, 60,000 in the U.S. and 58,000 internationally. Of the total employed people, 39,000 were in product research and development, 29,000 in sales and marketing, 32,000 in product support and consulting services, 8,000 in manufacturing and distribution, and 10,000 in general and administration. In June 2015, management approved a restructuring plan that will eliminate up to 7,800 positions in fiscal year 2016, primarily in our Phone Hardware business. As a result of the NDS acquisition, we have certain employees that are subject to collective bargaining agreements. 
AVAILABLE INFORMATION 
Our Internet address is www.microsoft.com. At our Investor Relations website, www.microsoft.com/investor, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, including: 
 
 • Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  
 • Information on our business strategies, financial results, and key performance indicators.  
 • Announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives of these events are also available.  
 • Press releases on quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news.  
 • Corporate governance information including our articles of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes of conduct and ethics, global corporate citizenship initiatives, and other governance-related policies.  
 • Other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting.  
 • Opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. In addition to these channels, we use social media to communicate to the public. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Microsoft to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our Investor Relations website. 
 
17 

 
