PART I 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
GENERAL 
Microsoft was founded in 1975. Our mission is to enable people and businesses throughout the world to realize their full potential by creating technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. We develop and market software, services, and hardware devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value to people’s lives. We do business worldwide and have offices in more than 100 countries. 
We generate revenue by developing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products and services, by designing and selling hardware devices, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global customer audience. In addition to selling individual products and services, we offer suites of products and services. 
Our products include operating systems for computing devices, servers, phones, and other intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; productivity applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and online advertising. We also design and sell hardware devices including Surface RT and Surface Pro, the Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360, Xbox 360 accessories, and Microsoft PC accessories. 
We offer cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, and content over the Internet by way of shared computing resources located in centralized data centers. Examples of cloud-based computing services we offer include Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Windows Azure, Bing, Skype, Xbox LIVE, and Yammer. Cloud revenue is earned primarily from usage fees, advertising, and subscriptions. We also provide consulting and product and solution support services, and we train and certify computer system integrators and developers. 
We conduct research and develop advanced technologies for future software, hardware, and services. We believe that we will continue to grow and meet our customers’ needs by delivering a family of devices and services for individuals and businesses that empower people around the globe at home, at work, and on the go, for the activities they value most. We will continue to create new opportunities for partners, increase customer satisfaction, and improve our service excellence, business efficacy, and internal processes. 
OPERATING SEGMENTS 
During the periods presented, we operated our business in five segments: Windows Division, Server and Tools, Online Services Division, Microsoft Business Division, and Entertainment and Devices Division. Our segments 
 
3 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 21 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). In July 2013, we announced a change in organizational structure as part of our transformation to a devices and services company. As we evolve how we allocate resources and analyze performance in the new structure, it is possible that our segments may change. 
Windows Division 
Windows Division develops and markets operating systems for computing devices, related software and online services, Surface RT and Pro devices, and PC accessories. This collection of software, hardware, and services is designed to empower individuals, companies, and organizations and to simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across the user’s hardware and software. Windows 8 is the first version of the Windows operating system that supports both x86 and ARM chip architectures and that focuses on touch. With this version, Windows is able to scale across more form factors, including mobile devices designed for consuming information and media, and devices that have high performance computing capabilities. 
Windows Division revenue growth is impacted by growth of the computing device market worldwide. Currently, approximately 65% of total Windows Division revenue comes from Windows operating systems purchased by original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), which they pre-install on the devices they sell. 
In addition to computing device market volume, Windows revenue is impacted by: 
 
 • the proliferation of new computing devices that emphasize touch and mobility functionality;  
 • device market changes driven by shifts between developed markets and emerging markets, and consumer devices and business devices;  
 • attachment of Windows to devices shipped;  
 • changes in inventory levels within the OEM channel;  
 • pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix of devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders to large, multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions licensed;  
 • demand of commercial customers for volume licensing and software assurance;  
 • sales of packaged software; and  
 • sales of Surface RT and Pro devices. Principal Products and Services:    Windows operating system; Windows Services suite of applications and web services, including Outlook.com and SkyDrive; Surface RT and Pro devices; and PC accessories. 
The general availability of Surface RT and Windows 8 started on October 26, 2012. The general availability of Surface Pro started on February 9, 2013. A preview of Windows 8.1 was released on June 26, 2013. 
Competition 
The Windows operating system faces competition from various commercial software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. We believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity, and the largest support network for any operating system. The Windows 8 operating system includes the Windows Store, an online application marketplace. This marketplace benefits our developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base and benefits Windows users by providing centralized access to certified applications. 
 
4 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
Windows Services software and applications, including SkyDrive and Outlook.com, compete with similar software and service products from Apple, Google, Yahoo!, and a wide array of websites and portals that provide communication and sharing tools and services. 
Surface Pro and RT devices and our PC accessories face competition from computer, tablet, and other hardware manufacturers, many of which are also current or potential partners and customers. 
Server and Tools 
Server and Tools develops and markets server software, software developer tools, cloud-based services, and solutions that are designed to make information technology professionals and developers and their systems more productive and efficient. We offer our customers both on-premise software and cloud-based offerings, bringing together the benefits of traditional on-site offerings with cloud-based services. Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications built on the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security and identity software. Server and Tools also builds standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server offerings can be run on-site, in a partner-hosted environment, or in a Microsoft-hosted environment. 
Our cloud-based services comprise a scalable operating system with computing, storage, database, and management, along with comprehensive cloud solutions, from which customers can build, deploy, and manage enterprise workloads and web applications. These services also include a platform that helps developers build and connect applications and services in the cloud or on premise. Our goal is to enable customers to devote more resources to development and use of applications that benefit their businesses, rather than managing on-premises hardware and software. 
Windows Embedded extends the power of Windows and the cloud to intelligent systems by delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services. In addition, Server and Tools offers a broad range of enterprise consulting and product support services (“Enterprise Services”) that assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions. Server and Tools also provides training and certification to developers and information technology professionals for our Server and Tools, Microsoft Business Division, and Windows Division products and services. 
Approximately 80% of Server and Tools revenue comes from product revenue, including purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to OEMs, and retail packaged product, while the remainder comes from Enterprise Services. 
Principal Products and Services:    Windows Server operating systems; Windows Azure; Microsoft SQL Server; Windows Intune; Windows Embedded; Visual Studio; System Center products; Microsoft Consulting Services; and Premier product support services. 
Competition 
Our server operating system products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions of the Unix operating system preinstalled on server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute to Linux operating system development. The competitive position of Linux has also benefited from the large number of compatible applications now produced by many commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of companies, such as Red Hat, supply versions of Linux. 
We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both 
 
5 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and e-business servers. IBM and Oracle lead a group of companies focused on the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that compete with our enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for PC-based distributed client/server environments include CA Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our Web application platform software competes with open source software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. In middleware, we compete against Java middleware such as Geronimo, JBoss, and Spring Framework. 
Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, and other companies. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, other companies, and open-source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails, among others. 
Our embedded systems compete in a highly fragmented environment in which key competitors include IBM, Intel, and versions of embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such as Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. 
Our cloud-based services face diverse competition from companies such as Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, Salesforce.com, VMware, and other open source offerings. The Enterprise Services business competes with a wide range of companies, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies. 
We believe our server products, cloud-based services, and Enterprise Services provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. 
Online Services Division 
Online Services Division (“OSD”) develops and markets information and content designed to help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and help advertisers connect with audiences. OSD offerings include Bing, Bing Ads, and MSN. We are also the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! websites worldwide. We have completed the Yahoo! worldwide algorithmic transition and the paid search transition in the U.S. and several international markets, and are transitioning paid search in the remaining international markets. Bing and MSN generate revenue through the sale of search and display advertising, accounting for nearly all of OSD’s revenue. We have expanded Bing beyond a standalone consumer search engine, and have integrated the technology into other Microsoft products, including Windows 8, the new Office, Xbox 360, and Windows Phone, to enhance those offerings. We plan to continue to incorporate Bing into our product and service portfolio. 
Principal Products and Services:    Bing; Bing Ads; and MSN. 
Competition 
OSD competes with Google and a wide array of websites and portals that provide content and online offerings to end users. Our success depends on our ability to attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content and advertiser offerings. We believe we can attract new users by continuing to offer new and compelling products and services and to further differentiate our offerings by providing a broad selection of content and by helping users make faster, more informed decisions and take action more quickly by providing relevant search results, expanded search services, and deeply-integrated social recommendations. 
Microsoft Business Division 
Microsoft Business Division (“MBD”) offerings consist of the Microsoft Office system (“Office,” comprising mainly the core Office product set, Office 365, SharePoint, Exchange, and Lync) and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, which may be delivered either on premise or as a cloud-based service. Office is designed to increase personal, 
 
6 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
team, and organization productivity through a range of programs, services, and software solutions and generates over 90% of MBD revenue. Growth in Office depends on our ability to add value to the core Office product set and to continue to expand our product offerings in other areas such as content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management (“CRM”), supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. 
Approximately 85% of MBD revenue is generated from sales to businesses, which includes Office revenue generated through subscriptions and volume licensing agreements as well as Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Revenue from sales to businesses generally depends upon the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise and is therefore relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given year. Approximately 15% of MBD revenue is derived from sales to consumers, which includes revenue from retail packaged product, subscription sales, and OEM revenue. This revenue generally is affected by the level of PC shipments, the shift to subscription-based licensing, and product launches. 
Principal Products and Services:    Microsoft Office; Microsoft Exchange; Microsoft SharePoint; Microsoft Lync; Yammer; Microsoft Office Project and Office Visio; Microsoft Dynamics ERP and Dynamics CRM; Microsoft Office 365, which is an online services offering of Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and Microsoft Office Web Apps, which are the online companions to Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote. 
The general availability of the new Office started on January 29, 2013. 
Competition 
Competitors to Office include software application vendors such as Adobe, Apple, Cisco, Google, IBM, Oracle, SAP, and numerous Web-based competitors as well as local application developers in Asia and Europe. Apple distributes versions of its application software products with various models of its PCs and through its mobile devices and has a measurable installed base for these pre-installed applications, such as email, note taking, and calendar. Cisco is using its position in enterprise communications equipment to grow its unified communications business. IBM has a measurable installed base with its office productivity products. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite that competes with Office. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications can also position themselves as alternatives to Office products. We believe our products compete effectively based on our strategy of providing powerful, flexible, secure, easy to use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have and are available on a device or via the cloud. 
Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such as Oracle and SAP in the market for large organizations and divisions of global enterprises. In the market focused on providing solutions for small and mid-sized businesses, our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such as Infor, Sage, and NetSuite. Salesforce.com’s on-demand CRM offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online and Microsoft Dynamics CRM’s on-premise offerings. 
Entertainment and Devices Division 
Entertainment and Devices Division (“EDD”) develops and markets products and services designed to entertain and connect people. The Xbox entertainment platform, including Kinect, is designed to provide a unique variety of entertainment choices through the use of our devices, peripherals, content, and online services. Skype is designed to connect friends, family, clients, and colleagues through a variety of devices. Windows Phone is designed to bring users closer to the people, applications, and content they need, while providing unique capabilities such as Microsoft Office and Xbox LIVE. Through a strategic alliance, Windows Phone and Nokia are jointly creating new mobile products and services and extending established product and services to new markets. EDD revenue also includes revenue from licensing mobile-related patents. 
Principal Products and Services:    Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360, Xbox 360 video games, Xbox 360 accessories; Xbox LIVE; Skype; and Windows Phone. 
 
7 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
Competition 
Our Xbox gaming and entertainment business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both of which have a large, established base of customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles averages five to 10 years. We released Xbox 360 in November 2005. Nintendo and Sony released competing versions of their game consoles in November 2006. In June 2013, we announced that we expect our next generation console, Xbox One, to be available for purchase in the second quarter of fiscal year 2014. Sony also announced their next generation console will be available for purchase in late 2013. Nintendo released their latest generation console in November 2012. 
We believe the success of gaming and entertainment consoles is determined by the availability of games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the console, and the ability to create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and peripherals. In addition to Nintendo and Sony, our businesses compete with both Apple and Google in offering content products and services to the consumer. We believe the Xbox entertainment platform is positioned well against competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises as well as other digital content offerings. 
Windows Phone faces competition primarily from Apple, Google, and Blackberry. Skype competes primarily with Apple and Google, which offer a selection of instant messaging, voice, and video communication products. 
We compete primarily on the basis of product quality and variety, unique capabilities of our products, timing of product releases, and effectiveness of distribution and marketing. 
OPERATIONS 
We have operations centers that support all operations in their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center in Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center in Singapore supports the Japan, India, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers in Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. In addition to the operations centers, we also operate data centers throughout the Americas, Europe, and Asia regions. 
To serve the needs of customers around the world and to improve the quality and usability of products in international markets, we localize many of our products to reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing a product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. 
We contract most of our manufacturing activities for Xbox 360 and related games, Kinect for Xbox 360, various retail software packaged products, Surface devices, and Microsoft PC accessories to third parties. Our products may include some components that are available from only one or limited sources. Our Xbox 360 console, Kinect for Xbox 360, Surface devices, and Microsoft PC accessories include key components that are supplied by a single source. The integrated central processing unit/graphics processing unit for the Xbox 360 console is purchased from IBM, and the supporting embedded dynamic random access memory chips are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. We generally have the ability to use other manufacturers if the current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements. We generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able to acquire component parts and materials on a volume discount basis. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
During fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011, research and development expense was $10.4 billion, $9.8 billion, and $9.0 billion, respectively. These amounts represented 13% of revenue in each of those years. We plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of research and development efforts. 
 
8 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
Product and Service Development and Intellectual Property 
We develop most of our products and services internally. Internal development allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. It also gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. We strive to obtain information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, we also create product documentation internally. 
We protect our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. We are a leader among technology companies in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of over 35,000 U.S. and international patents issued and over 38,000 pending. While we employ much of our internally developed intellectual property exclusively in Microsoft products and services, we also engage in outbound and inbound licensing of specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees’ or Microsoft’s products. From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, or attracting and enabling our external development community. 
While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products. 
Investing in the Future 
Microsoft’s success is based on our ability to create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new geographic and product markets, and to drive broad adoption of our products and services. We invest in a range of emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that we believe offer significant opportunities to deliver value to our customers and growth for the company. We maintain our long-term commitment to research and development across a wide spectrum of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration, information access and organization, entertainment, business and e-commerce, advertising, and devices. 
While our main research and development facilities are located in Redmond, Washington, we also operate research and development facilities in other parts of the U.S. and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, Estonia, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, and the United Kingdom. This global approach helps us remain competitive in local markets and enables us to continue to attract top talent from across the world. We generally fund research at the corporate level to ensure that we are looking beyond immediate product considerations to opportunities further in the future. We also fund research and development activities at the business segment level. Much of our business segment level research and development is coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the company. 
In addition to our main research and development operations, we also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research is one of the world’s largest computer science research organizations, and works in close collaboration with top universities around the world to advance the state-of-the-art in computer science, providing us a unique perspective on future technology trends. 
Based on our assessment of key technology trends and our broad focus on long-term research and development, we see significant opportunities to drive future growth in smart connected devices, cloud computing, entertainment, search, communications, and productivity through our devices and services strategy. 
 
9 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING 
We market and distribute our products and services primarily through the following channels: OEMs; distributors and resellers; and online. 
OEMs 
We distribute software through OEMs that pre-install our software on new PCs, tablets, servers, smartphones, and other intelligent devices that they sell to end customers. The largest component of the OEM business is the Windows operating system pre-installed on computing devices. OEMs also sell hardware pre-installed with other Microsoft products, including server and embedded operating systems and applications such as our Microsoft Office suite. In addition to these products, we also market our services, such as our Windows SkyDrive service, through OEMs. 
There are two broad categories of OEMs. The largest OEMs, many of which operate globally, are referred to as “Direct OEMs,” as our relationship with them is managed through a direct agreement between Microsoft and the OEM. We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our products with virtually all of the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUS, Dell, Fujitsu, HTC, Hewlett-Packard, LG, Lenovo, Nokia, Samsung, Sony, Toshiba, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category of OEMs consists of lower-volume PC manufacturers (also called “system builders”), which source their Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through a direct agreement or relationship with Microsoft. 
Distributors and Resellers 
Many organizations that license our products and services through enterprise agreements transact directly with us, with sales support from solution integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and developers that advise organizations on licensing our products and services (“Enterprise Software Advisors”). Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through large account resellers (“LARs”), distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), OEMs, system builder channels, and retailers. Although each type of reselling partner reaches organizations of all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily to VARs, and VARs typically reach small-sized and medium-sized organizations. Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized as LARs and operate as resellers for our other licensing programs, such as the Select Plus and Open licensing programs discussed under “Licensing Options” below. Some of our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some of our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, and Software House International. 
Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. We distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets, such as Wal-Mart, Dixons, and Microsoft Stores. We distribute our hardware products, including Surface, Xbox, and PC accessories, through third-party retailers and Microsoft Stores. We have a network of field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers, and provides product training and sales support. 
Online 
Although client-based software will continue to be an important part of our business, increasingly we are delivering additional value to customers through cloud-based services. We provide online content and services to consumers through Bing, MSN portals and channels, Microsoft Office Web Apps, Office 365, Windows Phone Marketplace, Xbox LIVE, Outlook.com, Skype, and Windows Store. We also provide to business users commercial cloud-based services such as Exchange Online, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Windows Azure, Windows Intune, and Office 365 consisting of online versions of Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and Yammer. Other services delivered 
 
10 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
online include our online advertising platform with offerings for advertisers and publishers, as well as Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources to support our partners in developing and selling our products and solutions. As we increasingly deliver online services, we sell many of these cloud-based services through our enterprise agreements and have also enabled new sales programs to reach small and medium-sized businesses. These new programs include direct sales, direct sales supported by a large network of partner advisors, and resales of services through operator channels, such as telephone, cell, and cable providers. We also sell our products through our online store, microsoftstore.com. 
LICENSING OPTIONS 
We license software to organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services. Our arrangements for organizations to acquire multiple licenses of products and services are designed to provide them with a means of doing so without having to acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. In delivering organizational licensing arrangements to the market, we use different programs designed to provide flexibility for organizations of various sizes. While these programs may differ in various parts of the world, generally they include those discussed below. 
Open Licensing 
Designed primarily for small-to-medium organizations, Open Programs allows customers to acquire perpetual or subscription licenses and, at the customer’s election, rights to future versions of software products over a specified time period (two or three years depending on the Open Programs used). The offering that conveys rights to future versions of certain software products over the contract period is called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Open Programs has several variations to fit customers’ diverse way of purchasing. Under the Open License Program, customers can acquire licenses only or licenses with software assurance. They can also renew software assurance upon the expiration of existing volume licensing agreements. 
Select Plus Licensing 
Designed primarily for medium-to-large organizations, the Select Plus Program allows customers to acquire perpetual licenses and, at the customer’s election, software assurance over a specified time period (generally three years or less). Similar to Open Programs, the Select Plus Program allows customers to acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with software assurance, or renew software assurance upon the expiration of existing volume licensing agreements. Online services are also available for purchase through the Select Plus Program, and subscriptions are generally structured with terms between one and three years. 
Partner Licensing 
The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement is a program targeted at service providers and Independent Software Vendors allowing these partners to provide software services and hosted applications to their end customers. Agreements are generally structured with a three-year term, and partners are billed monthly based upon consumption. Microsoft Online Services Reseller Agreement is a program enabling partners to package Microsoft Online Services with the partners’ services. Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement is designed to enable small and medium-sized businesses to easily purchase Microsoft Online Services. The program allows customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based services. Windows Azure Agreement is designed to enable small and medium-sized businesses to purchase Windows Azure Subscription plans on a “pay-as-you-go” basis. 
Enterprise Agreement Licensing 
Enterprise agreements are targeted at medium- and large-sized organizations that want to acquire licenses to Online Services and/or software products, along with software assurance, for all or substantial parts of their enterprise. 
 
11 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
Enterprises can elect to either acquire perpetual licenses or, under the Enterprise Subscription Program, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription agreements for a specified time period (generally three years). Online Services are also available for purchase through the enterprise agreement and subscriptions are generally structured with three year terms. 
CUSTOMERS 
Our customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through distributors, resellers, and OEMs. No sales to an individual customer accounted for more than 10% of fiscal year 2013, 2012, or 2011 revenue. Our practice is to ship our products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant. 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
Our executive officers as of July 30, 2013 were as follows: 
 
Name  Age   Position with the CompanySteven A. Ballmer   57    Chief Executive OfficerAnthony J. Bates   46    Executive Vice President, Business Development and EvangelismLisa E. Brummel   53    Executive Vice President, Human ResourcesAmy E. Hood   41    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerTami Reller   49    Executive Vice President, MarketingEric D. Rudder   46    Executive Vice President, Advanced Strategy and ResearchBradford L. Smith   54    Executive Vice President, General Counsel; SecretaryB. Kevin Turner   48    Chief Operating Officer
Mr. Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 2000. He served as President from 1998 to 2001. Previously, he had served as Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since 1992. Mr. Ballmer joined Microsoft in 1980. 
Mr. Bates was named Executive Vice President, Business Development and Evangelism in July 2013. He had been President of Microsoft’s Skype Division since its acquisition by Microsoft in 2011. Mr. Bates had been Chief Executive Officer of Skype since 2010. Before joining Skype, Mr. Bates spent nearly 15 years at Cisco Systems, Inc. where he had been Senior Vice President and General Manager of several business groups, including Enterprise, Commercial and Small Business, and Cisco’s core high-end router business. 
Ms. Brummel, Executive Vice President, Human Resources, has served as Microsoft’s senior human resources executive since 2005. From 2000 to 2005, she had been Corporate Vice President of the Home and Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft in 1989, Ms. Brummel has held a number of management positions at Microsoft, including General Manager of Consumer Productivity Business, Product Unit Manager of the Kids Business, and Product Unit Manager of Desktop and Decision Reference Products. 
Ms. Hood, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, was appointed Chief Financial Officer in May 2013. Beginning in 2010, Ms. Hood was Chief Financial Officer of the Microsoft Business Division. From 2006 through 2009, Ms. Hood was General Manager, Microsoft Business Division Strategy. Since joining Microsoft in 2002, Ms. Hood has also held finance-related positions in the Server and Tools Business and the corporate finance organization. 
Ms. Reller was named Executive Vice President, Marketing in July 2013. From 2011 to 2013 Ms. Reller was Chief Marketing Officer and Chief Financial Officer for Windows. Ms. Reller served as Corporate Vice President, Windows Division Marketing and Finance from 2009 to 2011 and as Corporate Vice President, Business Solutions beginning in 2002. Ms. Reller joined Microsoft with its acquisition of Great Plains Software, where she was Chief Financial Officer, in 2001. 
 
12 

Table of Contents
 
PART I 
Item 1 
 
Mr. Rudder was named Executive Vice President, Advanced Strategy and Research in July 2013. Mr. Rudder had been Chief Technical Strategy Officer since 2005. Since joining Microsoft in 1988, Mr. Rudder held several positions in networking and operating systems and developer tools, and was Senior Vice President, Server and Tools from 2003 to 2005 and Senior Vice President, Developer and Platform Evangelism from 2001 to 2003. 
Mr. Smith, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary, has served in that role since November 2001. Mr. Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer in 2002. He had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based in Paris. Mr. Smith joined Microsoft in 1993. 
Mr. Turner was named Chief Operating Officer in September 2005. Before joining Microsoft, he was Executive Vice President of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Sam’s Club division. From 2001 to 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Wal-Mart’s Information Systems Division. From 2000 to 2001, he served as its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Information Systems Division. Mr. Turner also serves on the Board of Directors of Nordstrom, Inc. 
EMPLOYEES 
As of June 30, 2013, we employed approximately 99,000 people on a full-time basis, 58,000 in the U.S. and 41,000 internationally. Of the total, 37,000 were in product research and development, 26,000 in sales and marketing, 21,000 in product support and consulting services, 6,000 in manufacturing and distribution, and 9,000 in general and administration. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. 
AVAILABLE INFORMATION 
Our Internet address is www.microsoft.com. At our Investor Relations website, www.microsoft.com/investor, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, including: 
 
 • our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”);  
 • information on our business strategies, financial results, and key performance indicators;  
 • announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives of these events are also available;  
 • press releases on quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news;  
 • corporate governance information including our articles, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes of conduct and ethics, global corporate citizenship initiatives, and other governance-related policies;  
 • other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting; and  
 • opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. 
 
13 

